The GamerGate Dossier is LIVE!
The GamerGate Dossier is live and ready to be read! We've got our official name for the report and it's A Review Of Game Journalism: A Report on Practices in the Video Game Journalism and Review Industry

What we'll need now is YOUR HELP! Spread the news on social media! We've also posted a link on our tumblr  so please reblog it! We want to get everyone to read this, no matter their stance - because it actually IS about ethics in journalism.

We've sent out over 1500 emails across the world to journalists, but getting the word out would still help! Also, a big thank you to everyone that has contributed during this project. We've come a long way so we hope we've done you all proud.

David Pakman Show on Twitter: ".@MatthiasCo I'm truly shocked that the CBC included me in that montage of pro #gamergate people harassing women. Shameful journalism."

GamerGate Exposed: A Peek Inside and How I Went Native

Theory: The Mainstream Media has been trying to derail #GamerGate, because they are just as dirty as Games Journalism and the thought of being held to account by a similar movement terrifies them.
Right now its about "Ethics in Games Journalism."

You can bet that some members of the Mainstream Media are anxious for this whole thing to go away, worried that this movement will morph into something that casts a wider net, people will start investigating their conduct, and that it will become about "Ethics in Journalism."
Polygon Co-Founder Chris Plante condemns comet landing scientist Matt Taylor for "sexist t-shirt driving women away from science"

How immature do some people think women are that they would be driven away from science because of a t-shirt?
The best part of this is following up on the details.  The shirt was made for him by a female friend as a birthday gift - 
Elly Prizeman   
Elly Prizeman  
Elly PrizeMAN

Internal misogynys. Her opinion is invalid! ^^^^/s
She literally thinks of herself as a prize for men. internalized mysogynistic shitlord
That's shitlady, misogynerd.
That really does make this so much better. 
Isn't it strange that anytime they take on "sexual objectification" it often turns out to be a creation made by another woman? Like say, Bayonetta? Makes you wonder who the actual misogynists are.
Very few people here are wondering that.  They've answered that question more times than I can stomach.  
Thanks, that's really critical information
It might be a lucky shirt as well. He's weaponizing LUCK!
So they jumped the gun and judged without asking for comment. good journalism as expected.
OH snap!
But she's a model!  Internalized soggy knees much?
the male gaze! THE MALE GAZE!
he mentions that in the article, at least
So this guy appears on national television after an incredible scientific success wearing a shirt, handmade by a friend. Fuck this guy, what an asshole.
 those hashtags are amuzing. 
Jennie Bharaj announces BasedGamer.com, a RottenTomatoes-like game review aggregator

Before everyone get apathetic and say "It will never work..." we have to start somewhere.

The majority of the issues around GamerGate stems from how review scores work and anyone who is an official reviewer through MetaCritic who also does not behave ethically is partially to blame.

Step in the right direction imo and hopefully will lead to less power in that magical number video game web sites give a game when it comes out.

Edit: Since I'm the top comment here is the link to the indiegogo if you want to support the project, you are a consumer so donate or not, as an anonymous poster I have no affiliation with this project I am only supplying information.

We need bigger people to signal boost this, hopefully this reaches TB and he can tweet it out or even make a video about this or something.

He personally has an axe to grind with metacritic and scores in general.
And he said something about gaming lacking a RottenTomatoes-like website in his interview with Pakman, so hed likely approve of the idea.
Yeah, I remember that.

We need to get the word out there, so hopefully this thread reaches the frontpage OR even better the mods pin it because TB reads KiA
TB will never attach his name to it without either

a) a controlling share in the company
b) a lot more information than what it on the indiegogo page
All there exists now is a billboard that says 'here are your dreams, give me money and maybe they'll come true'. TB would do better by just putting his own site up. Ideas alone are worth nothing when it comes to creating a website.
He should call it Stalebiscuits.com. Good games get an "oven fresh" rating while bad ones get progressively staler. 
Fresh

Moist 

Crisp

Crumbling

Crap
Roly poly freshly fresh

Wetter than yer mum

Like a bag of walkers

Crumbly wumbly

U wot m8
How is this any different from goodgamers.us, though?  How much shit did they get for crowdfunding?
He COULD probably snag a interview with the person in charge. That feels like the kind of middle ground he'd be into.

Rather than TB advertising the site, the person in charge could try to sell it to TB's viewership while under scrutiny. Sounds like a good idea to me!
Just keep signal boosting it on GG and OPskynet hashtags.  If this becomes the new big review site for games, and is more fair than meta critic, we can all be happy.
Agreed!
Agreed, nothing works if you never try.

Maybe we can finally get our gaming media watchdog out of this.
This is one of the most important things we can do.

We need to prove that we want to create, not just destroy.

We need to prove that we are willing to directly and philosophically support ethical alternatives.

RT the crap out of this. Link it everywhere. We want to be serious about a better review environment / review system? Let's show it here.
The Great Trinity of Hinduism is composed of three Gods. Brahma the Creator, Vishnu the Preserver and Shiva the Destroyer (transformer). Everything has its purpose, so let's support Brahma now.




Key is to be all three at the same time. I guess we are Gods now :3
We cannot die, so I think it's fitting. We respawn which is akin to reincarnation. I like it, time to ascend to godhood. 
I agree, but I think that what we need to be doing is creating or encouraging alternatives to the corrupt cabal. They have a ridiculously huge monopoly over everything right now.

Delusionals like qoz want to believe that they have freedom of choice, but they don't realize that nearly every choice is owned by the same few collaborators. It's not a choice when the only options all share the exact same agenda. That's why we need more options, even if we have to create them ourselves.
And after we create, you can find all the links to your favorite whitelisted websites on the neogaming subreddit. Just follow the neogaming link on the sidebar.
It's about damn time we saw some alternatives coming out of Gamergate. This is a good first step.
Why not GameRankings.com? It already exists.
And you've reserved /r/basedgamer too before trolls got it. 

Well done.
I didn't do it, it was most likely her team. I'm just the messenger!
We are all sock puppets of like 3 people anyways. Easy to get confused.
That's how we do. ;)
Subscribed to your sub and reserved on your site! You're awesome for doing this. :D
Something that has bugged me for people doing stuff online like YouTube videos or Hitbox streams - repeat after me:

Unified branding is important.

Unified branding is important.

Unified branding is important.

If you are going to produce content (whether for GG or something else), make sure you secure:

 The relevant domains (.com at least, perhaps more)
 Facebook
 Twitter
 Tumblr
 Vine
 Instagram
 YouTube
 Google+
 Twitch
 Hitbox
 Subreddit &amp; Reddit Account
 Ask.fm

And anything else remotely relevant before you start producing. A combination of all of these services can help your social media reach (which, believe it or not, matters in the online media world especially to advertisers) and get the stuff you are making out to more people.
 Hitbox

may also want a twitch account as well.
I can not believe I missed that. Added it in.

I should also add the caveat that it takes all of 30 seconds to sign up for an account with a website. You really have no idea if something is going to be the next YouTube or Facebook or whatever. Your policy should be to grab anything that comes up as soon as you have the chance just to be safe.
You're most likely 99.99% fine if you kick Vine out. It's nothing like the others and really isn't that big of a media platform for anything besides comedy. 
Trust, but verify.

It rests completely on her name and reputation. On nothing else.

Get hype all you want. But based on the information presented which part does warrant funding a 50k campaign?
 But based on the information presented which part does warrant funding a 50k campaign?

It's definitely a work in progress.  I get the feeling that there was a rush to put this together, and for now, that's fine.  There are 45 days for funding it, and after seeing Jennie's past performance, I have high hopes for this, but I'm going to hold off on throwing down a few bucks on this until they've hammered out a few more details.

It's a good start, but like you already said: trust but verify.  I feel that we should trust for now, and when the verification comes, so do the moneys.
Yeah I'm having a hard time seeing needing 50k for this. I think plenty of people would be willing to contribute code to this that is be pretty easy to make with just asking people for help rather than trying to monetize it. 
Unless someone is willing to do it on the cheap, a web developer will run you a lot of money.

Without naming names, an example I have seen professionally is $50/hour, minimum 20 hours. These are people with lots of experience, wide portfolios, and many certifications (and possibly degrees, too).

It is very much a skilled trade and if you want it done right it is going to cost. I can guarantee you that $50K will not pay for a single decent developer for an entire year. It would, however, be enough money (in my opinion) to get a site like this off of the ground properly.
Admittedly I'm just getting (trying to get) into the web development world but at what you are saying that is 10,000 man hours to get this of the ground. I feel like if that is the case this is not a fully fledged project and is basically still in the hopes and dreams stage. I feel like just with my knowledge from not quite a minor I could write a simple version of this in under one hundred hours. I am fairly certain that it doesn't scale in a linear fashion but still that seems like a lot of work for this. 
Admittedly I'm just getting (trying to get) into the web development world but at what you are saying that is 10,000 man hours to get this of the ground.

I am sorry, but your math is off by a zero.

$50,000 / 50 = 1,000

&amp;nbsp;

I feel like just with my knowledge from not quite a minor I could write a simple version of this in under one hundred hours.

I have no doubt that you (and many, many other people could). But you are looking at this as if making the website itself irrespective of other costs is the only factor. It is certainly not.

First, you have the actual development of the website. The creation of the thing itself. Designing something functional is not that difficult for someone who is skilled with web development. Designing something functional and secure is more difficult.

Security alone is important. Have you considered that if were there any easy exploits in the website as it stands now it would probably give you a very large list of e-mails that are probably heavily full of GamerGate supporters? What do you suppose could be done with that information?

After the design is done you also have infrastructure costs such as web hosting. A site like this is not going to be able to go with a $7/mo. GoDaddy package. It is going to need something more robust as well as other enterprise-level features such as DDOS protection (and I guarantee that it will be DDOSed - either maliciously, by the act of a lot of people visiting it very quickly due to interest, or both). This is not cheap. Even outsourcing it to something like CloudFare can run a few hundred a month. Furthermore, for a launch you would want to prefund all of these obligations for a minimum of six months to ensure that the site will be around for a while as well as discounts you receive buying service in bulk.

Graphic designers can charge roughly similar rates as web developers. The logo and site graphics do not just spring from the aether - someone has to make those as well. Even if it is the web developer making it (as some web developers also do graphic design to be a one-stop shop for website design), those are nonetheless hours spent at their nominal rates.

There are legal concerns, as well. Ms. Bharaj could just run this out of her home, but it would probably work best as a seperate entity. There are all sorts of legal concerns such as what sort of company to set up and how much this would cost ($500 minimum).

So, in my opinion properly building the site so that it is secure and reliable could probably be done for less than $50,000, sure. But when you consider all of the other factors involved I feel that it is a reasonable number.
Fair enough. I can see that. 
Thanks. Also, after reading my post again I am worried that it may come off a little bit hostile. I want to express that that was not at all my intent and I hope you can understand that. I apologize if I came off too abrasively - I am somewhat passionate about the topic as you can tell. \^_\^'
No, its go to be informed of stuff like this before I tired to say something stupid somewhere like a job interview. I realize that I'm not super experienced and am willing to adjust my view in the face of logic. 
$50/hr is a very good deal.
Man I really need to keep working at this stuff...
If you really want to get into it, it is doable without having gone to school. You will need to invest time in studying and money in certifications - hundreds (perhaps even thousands) of dollars.

Skills in graphic design can help as well - otherwise you will have to subcontract that and the rates would approximately be the same as a good web developer for a good graphic artist.
I charge $75/hour as a developer myself, and the charge out rates from recruiters is even higher (like $110/hour and such).

50k is a reasonable estimate for a project.
Reminder: Follow curators from second steam curator page to throw Kotaku off the first page. Only 2K remaining!
Kotaku is now 2K followers away from Anime 1.0, curator that is currently on 11th place. We went from over 4K to 2.5K to 2K in less than a week. Continue your effort to inform others to follow good curators on second steam curators page (and follow yourself if you haven't yet). We can do it!

William Usher (One Angry Gamer) confirms that the "Intel ads" on Gamasutra come from Google Adsense and not a direct partnership. Check the sourcecode

"The #Waronnerds: How Far Left Feminists and the Media Created #Gamergate" -- Could not have written this without comments from y'all and Gamerghazi

My letter to the BBC
I am writing to you to express my concern at the quality of coverage provided by the BBC with regards to #GamerGate. I myself am a journalism graduate from XXXXXXXX in XXXXXXX where I studied media ethics under XXXXXXXXX, a highly respected figure when it comes to advocating the value of public service broadcasting. It is thanks to his tutelage that I am as passionate as I am about media ethics. I also spent a year abroad studying at XXXXXXX in XXXXXX where I further studied media ethics with senior editors from the CBC. So please understand this is an area that I am more than passingly familiar with.

My interest in media ethics led me to look into the #GamerGate tag and the conduct of various media outlets has been less than inspiring. There have been numerous cases documented of journalists in the gaming press covering people they are close to without disclosing their relationships. Something that I'm certain you would not allow at the BBC. While most press coverage has focused on Zoe Quinn (who I note you are happy to refer to under a pseudonym while apparently finding it difficult to do so with Sargon of Akkad) and tangentially Nathan Grayson, this has been only one small example. There has been a steady pattern of violations of the separation between author and subject across a number of publications (though the Gawker network has been amongst the worst offenders) with various journalists such as Ben Kuchera, Patricia Hernandez and others.

There have been further issues with collusion between supposedly competing outlets to establish narratives and to black ball journalists failing to comply with the overall group. For example the lack of coverage of a hack of 40,000 accounts on an EA operated server for almost a year due to reporters being approached not wanting to upset their friends at EA. There have also been issues around coverage of potential corruption in various independent awards and the financial ties between those in charge of dispensing the awards and the recipients.

There have been cases of harassment, but these have never been linked to #GamerGate and are vocally condemned on various forums where supporters congregate. There has also been abuse and harassment directed at supporters of #GamerGate as well, though that has received no serious coverage at all. This has included "Swatting" and "Doxxing" of various parties, the hounding out of their job of at least two individuals. The creator of  #NotYourShield and Quinns ex-boyfriend Eron Gjoni from his work in medical tech-research. 

Others have received items in the mail ranging from syringes to dead animals and knives. These are cases of tangible threats that have been ignored in favour of inflammatory on-line posts. Has the BBC actually investigated these threatening messages themselves? Have they examined them or sought expert analysis?

I ask these questions because another story I was involved in looking at during my time as a student was the case of Hitz Radio. A great many media outlets all accepted the story each assuming the others must have performed due diligence and that they were thus excused. Among the people accused of harassment are a journalist David Pakman that simply asked Ms Quinn if she would be interested in being interviewed for his show. He has since been included in a montage of harassment by CBC in a prime example of how lack of verification can spread.

Also ignored has been the attempts by supporters of #GamerGate to stop harassment such as finding the blogger in Brazil behind the bulk of death threats against Anita Sarkeesian (which long predate #GamerGate) though Ms Sarkeesian and her business partner Mr McIntosh refuse to take the information offered.

The continued focus of the media, and the BBC in particular, on #GamerGate as a movement of harassment is most disappointing and a serious breach of the duty that the BBC has to investigate and present truthful and unbiased coverage of events. I must also admit dismay at an article in the Columbia Journalism Review bemoaning the difficulty of covering any movement or event that lacks a PR representative. It seems that many are coming to regard journalism as not worth doing if it isnt easy...

I believe in the BBC and the importance of an independent public service broadcaster and that is why I am so concerned by the omissions in coverage and lack of critical analysis.

I suggest that if you want to properly examine the issues that you use this press package compiled by supporters of #GamerGate as a starting point to look at the wider issues beyond a simplistic narrative, as ever be critical and sceptical as befits a journalist, just remember to do so with all sources.
 
XXXXXX
Good effort. Should we consider making those kind of complaints more officially open letters? Maybe there's a way of increasing pressure to take this seriously. Also I can't help viewing the GG coverage as a symptom for more general problems with media. Thus it is an issue of public interest. 
That wouldn't be a bad idea.
Good work I've sent one myself and I urge all other brits to do the same.
Should we just send em via the beebs normal complaint list of do you think direct email to higher ups would be better?
My problem with the press dossier is, that it only very peripherally goes into the gender issue side of things. Again, it looks like we're trying to ignore these concerns and leave ourselves open to attacks on that side.

When the generally accepted narrative is that we are anti-women and actively harassing women, it still seems to me that we would do better to actually try and address these issues, rather than trying to pretend they don't exist. So far, it's only worked against us.

Beyond that, I totally agree with your letter and I think it is great shame, that especially the BBC would do such shoddy work on this.
I think the gender issues are another topic, different to the press problem.IMHO #gamergate main focus is within ethics in games journalism. I dont say the gender stuff is unimportant but it is another discussion and we should focus on one thing at the time.
Actually it's about artistic freedom and fighting censorship- that sounds far less boring.
I would wish that was true, but my argument simply is, that because we mostly have this attitude we are getting nailed on this issue. Everybody in the media laughs at our 'it's just about journalistic ethics' talk and I think talking more about the other issues would make us more credible altogether.

Also, the other fight goes way beyond just gamergate, in that fight we are not alone, so lets make it work for us.

It's not that difficult. Just say we are for diversity and inclusiveness in both games and people, but we reject the methods of the social justice movement as divisive and counterproductive.
With all due respect my friend, you are being naive. The harassing women narrative was made up and forced by the other side without any evidence at all that real #GamerGate supporters were engaged in harassment. It allows them to take the focus off of their shoddy "journalism" and put it on harassment and bullying instead, which is a sexier topic for the mainstream media.

Let me be clear here.. the other side is NOT trying to debate harassment with us at all. The MSM is not interested in actually objectively reporting on GamerGate, they are taking everything at face value from their colleagues.

If somebody calls you a racist and you're not one, you don't respond by getting defensive and saying "I'm not a racist", every PR manager will tell you that. Instead, you go on the offensive, brand your accuser as dishonest and point out their lack of evidence. You then either leave it at that, or consult a legal rep to take care of it in the background. You do not abandon your work or slow your pace.. that's the goal of calling you a racist in the first place. 

It's exactly the same with sexist. It's an ad hominem attack used to derail any actual debate of substance, to turn your attention and the attention of the onlooker away from the real subject matter.

I said on this subreddit multiple times that we need to STOP talking about harassment COMPLETELY, against either GamerGate or anti-GG because the people engaged in it are doing it for attention, STOP GIVING IT TO THEM. We should refuse in interviews and articles to even engage on the subject and call it what it is.. an Internet-wide problem that isn't exclusive to gaming, or tech, or even social media.

We have allowed the other side to consistently set the narrative and GamerGate became, at times, more about defending ourselves from baseless, evidence-lacking claims in the corrupt press, rather than digging up more damning info on those who declared jihad on gamers and seek to be the gatekeepers and self-appointed regulators between developers and consumers. We can't do that and be successful, instead we have to persevere and stay on track.. but just looking at this subreddit it is clear that unfortunately some people don't want to do that.. they seem to be more interesting in GamerGate being all about defending gamergaters from baseless claims rather than the initial goals of gamergate and that's sad. It's why Milo was in here a few days ago trying to reason with everybody to STOP doing that and instead continue with investigating and exposing the game press.

GamerGate has nothing to do with gender directly even though it has clearly supporters who are non-male. It is loosely connected in that the games press keep screaming sexism in games, but that's more to do with the quality of their reviews and reporting so far as we should be concerned...

On that point, just one last note. Pakman insisted that somebody putting a political spin in articles or even reviews is not really unethical.. I tend to disagree with him on that and I have to point out that his entire "thing" is to put a liberal spin on almost anything, therefore he's hardly going to find it unethical, is he?

But in a broader sense, I think that if you are reviewing a game and you score it lower because its content conflicts with your feminist views, then your analysis and subsequent rating were not based on an objective analysis, they were based on a feminist analysis. And you know what.. that's fine AS LONG AS IT IS DISCLOSED AS A FEMINIST ANALYSIS, but instead they are presented as if objective, and that is, in my opinion, unethical. But ye that's a debate for another day.. 

EDIT: Wanted to correct myself on the comment about Pakman putting a liberal spin on everything.. one look at his YouTube channel and he makes it clear that he gives a "progressive" viewpoint on everything.. therefore he is openly disclosing it and being honest about it, so I didn't mean to suggest his work is unethical. 
I'm not talking about the harassment issue, that clearly is mostly bullshit, I'm talking about the fact that that narrative sticks because we are not really willing to discuss the fact that yes, maybe there are valid gender issues. If we were a little more proactive in that respect, maybe that whole my soggy knees spiel would be a little less effective.

edit Yes, maybe gender issues are not important to us, but it is purportedly important to the people trying to smear us. What I find naive is the attitude that sticking our heads in the sand about this will make it go away. That's been working really well for us so far. /s

edit 2 I'll paste it again: 

It's not that difficult. Just say we are for diversity and inclusiveness in both games and people, but we reject the methods of the social justice movement as divisive and counterproductive.

That is neither defensive nor trying to ignore the issue.
THANK YOU
As a #GG gamedev using an anonymous account, this is my reply to Raph Koster's myopic plea that "GamerGate needs to die"

What's worse, I have actually read Raph Koster's book and, while I found some of it farfetched, have cited some of its assertions of what games are as alternative (and more cerebral) theories to those set forth by people like Anita Sarkeesian, Zoe Quinn, Brianna Wu who insist on "redefining" what a game is. I feel he's done something painfully hypocritical and contradictory here, and has an entire book to prove it.

Anyway this just makes me sick to be honest. Gotta go lie down for a few minutes after seeing this. This whole thing is like a Twilight Zone episode.
 Anyway this just makes me sick to be honest. Gotta go lie down for a few minutes after seeing this. This whole thing is like a Twilight Zone episode.

/hugs to you, friend. :)

We'll be alright.  A lot of people lose their principles in the face of adversity.  

No Heroes.  No Idols.  
I understand. Though I'm not a dev, I did find it rather annoying that Koster tries to present his views as representative of the vast majority of the industry if not every dev. It's also rather disingenuous that he spins a sensational narrative of his own about the fear and panic among devs to defend the status quo.

I find both ralph Schubert actions weird, I don't mean they don't have some good reasons for wanting GG to end, but that it seems they have a personal stake. frankly they both feel they are doing good cop(ralph) bad cop(Schubert) act. Schubert has straight lied in some cased I couldn't even listen through the whole Radio Nero episode because of his lies 
The reason I dislike Raph Koster's stance is because in this day and age, the game that shot him to fame, utlima online, would be touted as a "hyper competitive", "male fantasy", full of "tropes". Of course it was celebrated at the time, and he gained much fame recognition, and money from the wallets of male gamers - ironically... What does he do with that fame?


Instead of defending the rights of creators and consumers, he helps burn the bridge of creativity that he once crossed himself, or at the very least is not really helping to defend it.


He may be a good visionary, and programmer, however he isn't the only one. It would be a shame if the next "ultima online" wasn't able to be made because it wasn't "socially acceptable", a viewpoint he doesn't seem to have a problem with.

This a thousandfold.  Do people remember Ultima online?  Shit was worse than EVE Online in just how high the barrier of entry was in terms of skill, etc.  Also, the sexy lady characters.

He's literally made nothing that was equivalent to his Ultima Online success.  Even EQII was a flop, and was completely out-competed by WoW.  He hasn't made shit since 2006.  That's 8 goddamn years of not a damn thing, and he's telling me he has his finger on the pulse of the devs?  Give me a goddamn break you one-trick pony.
Exactly. You hit it right on the head. 


Ultima was before my time, but I played eve back in the day. In the current climate both of those games would be heavily scrutinized, and probably deemed "toxic" to the you know what and who.

He is basically taking the same stance of the people that would have called his game "unacceptable", thereby screwing over people that come after him.
Eve has dumbed down ,I mean is more user friendly these days..

When I started I was pretty much dropped into space with the helpful advice "knock yourself out"
 Also, the sexy lady characters.

And female antagonist (also sexy).
That pretty much explains Raph Koster. He entered the industry more or less as the very things he's in effect railing against today. Now with his fame, influence, connections and wealth, he's using them to act as though he represents the voice of most if not every dev out there, while ensuring that his very "success" isn't replicated again by others. Not to mention that he has his own stake in wanting to maintain the status quo.
Good point. The lock out strategy is on full display in the gaming industry.
Which is particularly disingenuous when he expresses sympathy for indies and devs he disagrees with, so long they play by the status quo's rules and the narrative he's had a role in shaping. Then turns his back to decry GG and those who support GG for contributing to a "toxic" environment.

Slightly easier to read version.

EDIT: Also your They Live gif was awesome, let us know when you can one day speak out so I can buy all your games.
Thanks, dude. Oh, and the They Live animated gif wasn't mine, I had just made an img version, but the other dude went all out and made the animated gif, so I don't wanna steal his heat.
Ah well this is good too and I appreciate your support, so I'll buy the games for that reason :)
Thank you.
Thank you. I found it so annoying how he was trying to speak for all developers.
excellent rebuttal on the part of the author
I really appreciate your support and your expressing your voice, just as with most GG supporters would no doubt. 

As with Wardell, Vavra and even Levine along with the anonymous and female devs who've voiced out, it's pretty clear that Raph Koster's take on the industry and GG doesn't hold as much weight as initially thought. And with the status quo doing a disservice to both gamers and developers, especially those who don't conform to it, serious reform if not a thorough clean-up is in order.
Invocation of a silent majority is generally suspect.

Also, Ecco the motherfucking Dolphin.
On #1, "harassment is prevalent" means "for both sides." And who claimed anti was the only side with women? My point was that the climate is nasty.

On #2, again, nothing there says that this is only an antiGG problem either. You're leaping to the conclusion that I was saying it was. If anything, your point that partisan anti voices have said you are unwelcome proves my point that social media has become unhospitable to developers.

On #3, this is the one we would disagree on. Or rather, we both agree that GG is attacking those institutions. I happen to believe that some institutions is better than NO institutions. GG isn't capable of replacing them, after all.

On #4, I've been pretty not "us vs them" this whole time. If anything, whoever memeified my post here, followed by your counter-meming, is far more of a polarization tactic than anything I have said or done during the entire existence of GG.

That said, I don't think that pro or anti are at all slouches in the "us vs them" dept. In fact, I think it's ludicrous to claim that one side isn't demonizing the other.

On #5, my point is that the climate is such that developers going out there is fraught with peril. You prove my point by needing to use an anonymous account to post this in the first place. Saying something pro OR anti is dangerous now, no matter what you do you alienate people.

Fear of the audience is not fear of what they think. Fear of the audience is triggered more by stuff like swattings, threats, etc.

Bottom line: you made a meme to argue with me, and most of what you said agrees with me.

Which brings us to #6. I cannot think of a single thing that GG has done that reduces the above issues. Its ongoing existence is a big part of why they are issues in the first place. That says nothing about the other merits or problems with GG. It says "these things are big problems for developers right now and GG is why they are big problems." If GG went away, then many of these issues would subside.

Finally, you say "don't vilify us and expect sympathy." I have not vilified you. I am not the antis you are mad at (plenty of them are mad at me for even talking to you). You accuse me of damaging your life and career. I don't see how that's even possible.

Look -- I know plenty of proGG devs. I also don't move in just one small clique of developers. I am sympathetic to say, indies concerned that existing institutions don't provide avenues for exposure, or to developers worried about limitations on their creative expression.

But I think it's undeniable that right now, it's plain harder to be a dev in public, regardless of what side you are on, and it's because GG is going on.
 Fear of the audience is triggered more by stuff like swattings, threats, etc.

I've never swatted anyone Raph.  You would be hardpressed to find anyone here who isn't instantly banned and reported to the admins who advocate that.  Not sure why you are trying to argue this is something that is in any way related to GamerGate, especially given that the only (attempted) swatting that has been reported by anyone was, as far as I know, done by the people you are choosing to champion.  If proGamerGate individuals have done this, I would love to see evidence produced so I can report it to the appropriate authorities - a 15 year old kid got 25 years in prison for swatting(edit: I have been told that the 25 year sentence was a hoax - regardless, I stand by the claim that it is a very very serious crime - somebody could have been seriously hurt), not an entirely unjust sentence - swatting is not a joke, and it is not something you accuse people of lightly.  

I cannot think of a single thing that GG has done that reduces the above issues.

Perhaps that is because you are confused as to our nature; we don't have insider information like you do.  We didn't know about the bomb threats called into those planes until you mentioned it, here, in KotakuInAction, during your first AMA months ago now.  Why would we?  Even if we did have such information, we aren't here to 'save the world' - we just want some transparency in the media.  Trying to accuse us of not succeeding in anything while citing goals that are completely unrelated to what we want is ignorant at best, outright malicious at worst.  Ethics and transparency has nothing to do with policing the actions of individuals - rather, it has everything to do with what and how things are reported on.

But I think it's undeniable that right now, it's plain harder to be a dev in public, regardless of what side you are on, and it's because GG is going on.

Sure, but that's because it's hard for everybody - not just devs.  Presenting your argument as it was gives the implication that devs are unique in this aspect; they really aren't in my opinion.  Do you think if someone like Georgie Tait saw a pro-GamerGate person in public that perhaps we might be afraid of the side arguing, in earnest and honest belief, that we should be killed?  These are not unique "jokes" either.  They are not funny.  They are frankly terrifying.  We are not going to "die" (poor choice of words given the recent controversies) until the media implements real and measured efforts to deal with this absurd bias, deal with the absurd conflicts of interest, and attempts to make amends for the harm it has, and continues, to do.  The industry cliques have to stop.

You said to me just last week that the Media has done a terrible job of showing the harassment of those who support GamerGate, but it seems you have just contributed to that unfortunate misleading narrative, willing or not.  

:(  

^(edit: as usual, I speak for only myself)
If you really want to fix this, ditch your entire frame here.  It flatly won't work.

Gamergate isn't mainly a consumer revolt, and it's not mostly about journalistic ethics.  Gamergate is a collapse of the small-l liberal civic order (at least in games).  Claiming it has or hasn't reduced whatever you've listed is pretty meaningless.  Gamergate is the barn door swinging wide open after the horses have fled the barn.  It's the shattered antique china on the floor after you've dropped it.

Here's the thing.  You want a restoration of the peaceful small-l liberal public sphere that's good for doing business.  Most of us wistfully do, too.  But if you want a small-l liberal public sphere, then you _have_ to be willing to fight for the values of a small-l liberal public sphere.  And many prominent voices, loud voices, voices with huge megaphones, in games, have absolutely not been doing that the past few years - in fact, they've aggressively been doing exactly the opposite, with no apparently consequences... until now.

The re-emergence of the activist left the last few years has been, as it generally is, fundamentally illiberal.  It's fundamentally antagonistic to people of diverse ideologies interacting peacefully with each other and finding ways of resolving problems through mutual tolerance, respect, and assumptions of good faith.  This isn't me making stuff up; this is literally what its supporters say, over and over and over.  Identity politics are at their heart intended to force confrontation.  No sitting on the fence in a wishy-washy liberal way.  You're either for Atheism Plus or you're for misogyny.  You're either for a very specific style of discourse in game culture (in which words like white, male, and straight can be thrown around willy-nilly as slurs with no repurcussions) or you are against inclusivity, somehow.

And so now we have that confrontation, as intended.  THAT'S THE POINT OF ILLIBERAL ACTIVISM.  Heighten the contradictions.  Force the confrontations.

This is why Bill Clinton said, the other day, that identity politics are just sheer poison.  They're utterly divisive and destructive.  I hate hate hate them.  But for us, for right now, that genie is out of the lamp.  This is where we are.

You're not going to put that genie back in the lamp by scolding people who identity with Gamergate.  That's how we got here in the first place.
This is why Bill Clinton said, the other day, that identity politics are just sheer poison. They're utterly divisive and destructive. I hate hate hate them. But for us, for right now, that genie is out of the lamp. This is where we are.

For a short 60 second summary in video form of what he is trying to say
Morgan Freeman is indeed, based.
This post is amazing.  Thanks for taking the time to articulate it.
Raph, have you ever considered that GG is not the hostile environment itself, but rather a response to the one created by the games media and a small group of social "critics" that don't even care about gaming?

Why would anyone who has been in the industry for so long ever side with such a group of people?
Why Gamergate lives.

1) The harassment was there all along.

2) Social Media was already a platform for destroying people. They were silenced before. With GG they have a platform for speaking up.

3) Those institutions are rotten, and are keeping out developers they don't like. They are being attacked, because they have attacked others. Live by the sword, die by the sword.

4) What was hidden in darkness is now revealed. There is no escape from this. There is nowhere to run. The moment you get your wish, will mark a night of broken glass.

5) Then be brave? is that not part of being an artist? Are you to be coddled then?

6) GG is a hashtag. It's more about showing up than actually accomplishing anything. Without GG there is no reporting or record of SJW stalking, harassment, or threats. Crimes against those they dislike are suppressed. What a tidy little mafia they've become. Whoever controls the megaphone, controls the representation of "facts".

Without GG you don't get these kinds of articles.

Hey Raph, as a member of the industry I'd like to politely request that you stop trying to speak for anyone except yourself.

Edit: I did some digging and found that the "why developers think..." part was added on ex post facto.  So please continue to speak for yourself only!
 On #5, my point is that the climate is such that developers going out there is fraught with peril. You prove my point by needing to use an anonymous account to post this in the first place. Saying something pro OR anti is dangerous now, no matter what you do you alienate people.

I will speak both for myself and for many others here (having been part of this community for a while, I think I can in this one instance) when I say that a dev can come out as anti-gg, and they will not alienate us. This has happened before, and most people here react with disappointment that a dev has bought into a convenient narrative about GamerGate, but unless they call us "insects" and worse (see Wheaton, Wil), we don't hold what is simply a difference of opinion against them as far as a future business interaction may occur.

Consider Brad Wardell. I believe climate change is the single most important issue facing our society, and disagree vehemently with him both as a scientist and an environmentalist in his stated opinions doubting its veracity. Yet I purchase Stardock games and software, because I am not aware of him using any income I give his company specifically to promote such nonsense. And no, simply voting or writing blogs or being active politically does not count.

Yet I do not support Orson Scott Card, because of reasons surrounding his political views. Not that I care more about the issue of homophobia and gay marriage than I do about climate change -- they are both important to me for different reasons -- I do this simply because he was shown to be using any income he received to provide significant funding to a campaign that I would not be comfortable supporting myself.

This is the type of nuanced thinking that I simply do not share with anyone on the anti side, or indeed anywhere else but here it feels like sometimes.

Please don't try to paint both sides as being equally wrong and engaging in the same actions at their extremes. Ask us and listen closely to our answers, and then decide where there are differences or similarities to the best of your ability.
Hi Rory,

While I am indeed a skeptic regarding AGW, I try to live as if it is true. I.e. Better safe than sorry. My house has 0 net carbon foot print, is completely solar powered, geothermal heated and cooled and my daily driver car is electric powered via our solar array. :) 


Yes, I am aware of those laudable actions. Believe me, I've looked into it. :-)

It's great that you have the opportunity to do those things, but be careful to not make it seem like an Olympic event. I've come to realize that not everyone is in a similar position. I am able to cycle all year (even during -40 winters) and don't own a car (well, a working one anyway), but that is not something I expect everyone else would be able to do, even if they wanted. Nor do I think I'm doing more than others (actually I wonder if I'm doing enough myself).

Honestly though, I'd love to sit you down and teach you about black body radiation to help you have the tools -- and language -- to actually be a skeptic in truth (without those basic skills it's like a car mechanic who doesn't know what a carburator is...i.e. they aren't a car mechanic), but not everyone has to be fully versed in the physics of thermodynamics to respect them as a person, and give them the benefit of the doubt that they mean well. Otherwise, it is too easy to see them as monstrous or a criminal (as happened to you and has been done to many others as well).
Hey Raph. How would you go about ending GG? Is there a solution you've proposed for this?

Fence sitter here. Been following along since the great deletions and censoring debacles that started a lot of this.

Edit: btw, just wanted to say thanks for SWG. Was there at the start and loved it, though it ended up shit. Nothing compares to that community and those first months of the game. Miss it.
 I've been pretty not "us vs them" this whole time.

Your post was titled "why developers think Gamergate needs to die."

Pretty sure by that you mean "I speak for all developers and THEY, GAMERGATE SUPPORTERS, need to die". Needing to die is a pretty strong word, so denying you're creating a hostile us vs them climate is downright ridiculous. The overall tone of your blogpost is that everyone that doesn't belong in your inner circle is a scumbag that can fuck off, and that gamergate is to blame for all the vitriol (after all, you want THEM to DIE, not the trolls that use the controversy to unleash chaos).

Also, you say GG wants 'institutions to die'. No, we want them to either change or die. When the IDGF says they reward games not on merit, but based on 'who they think needs it more' and judges don't even start up games before giving them a score (aka a shit game will win if the dev has the right friends and wins enough sympathy with them), I want that organization to shape up or fuck off. A games festival that rewards the friends of the judges has no purpose whatsoever. We're better of with no institutions than with corrupt cliques that prop up their friends and put down everyone else.

The nepotism you keep supporting makes me sick. You and your attitude are keeping GamerGate alive and you don't even get it.

 I have not vilified you

No, you just said you want him and everyone that agrees with him TO DIE.

Yeah, that's MUCH better.
 most of what you said agrees with me.

If you honestly believe that, then you need to reread the image. Your argument is that GG has caused a hostile environment, so killing it would benefit everyone. His argument is that GG has meerly exposed a hostile environment, so killing it would only benefit those who created the hostile environment.
On #3, this is the one we would disagree on. Or rather, we both agree that GG is attacking those institutions. I happen to believe that some institutions is better than NO institutions. GG isn't capable of replacing them, after all.

This is a tricky one, what if the institutions are part of the problem itself?
Right now, ACU showed, that the media outlets are willing to sign embargo deals that end 12 hours AFTER the launch of the game, a practice that everybody should have known is only invented to delay mediocre reviews of a game and even when the reviews came out, they completely ignored, that the game was in fact absolutely broken. Sure, some outlets have spoken out and said, they won't do this again, but honestly everybody has known why this embargo was made in when it was accepted in the first place.

On the other side, the non reporting on Kingdom Come after the dev spoke out in favour of Gamergate showed, that the same Journalusts are willing to exclude games from their sites, when they decide, the developer isn't acting according to their beliefs.
I don't have a simple solution how to end this mess, nobody has, but saying some institutions are better than no institutions is problematic.
Upvote for responding.

These problems aren't inherit to just GamerGate as you have noted. And these problems will continue long after the hash tag is dead and gone. These are just issues related to internet dialogs in general.

The fire has already started and it is clear people want to have a conversation about it. While others appear to be content sitting on other side slinging meaningless insults.

So regardless if there is a name to it or not, people will continue to use divisive debates as an avenue for cheap laughs and attention. Best to ignore them and try to actually consider the legitimate points people bring up.

Asking for "GamerGate" to end only implies that one side is responsible for the ugliness. I could just as easily argue that the opponents should actually take the movement seriously and address concerns instead of belittling those that disagree with them. Except neither of these will stop individuals saying stupid shit on the internet.

If you are speaking more as groups, I have only seen GG appeal to advertisers to avoid establishments that attack/insult them directly. The opposition is the side with large portions of the media seemingly at their control, and are not afraid to use it against those that simply disagree.
Thanks for voicing and discussing your opinions.
  I happen to believe that some institutions is better than NO institutions.

I disagree. Others would step up to fill the vaccuum once the corrupt institutions are dismantled. Also, you could apply this logic to other things: Corrupt governments, Mafia-run enterprises, The Taliban etc. 
I appreciate you replying in this thread Raph.

I'm glad that you're stating you think your points apply to both sides.  

Hopefully you can also appreciate why that wasn't clear within the context of your message when it's titled 'Why #GamerGate needs to die".  That seems to put the blame on everything that follows squarely on GG.  Rather than something like, "Why GG and the progressive development/critic community need to find common ground and work together".

If you had titled it "Why developers think attacks on the gamer identity needs to die" or "Why developers think social justices influence on games needs to die" do you think think anyone would have thought your subsequent points applied to both sides?  Also, I'm not suggesting that it necessarily does but trying to illustrate my point.

I also agree that it's hard out there right now for everyone involved.

If GG were to 'die', how would that improve anything for the people who care about the goals of GG?  If anything I fear it would further empower the people and organizations engaged in practices we disagree with.
Dude I feel the same way, I'm just a fresh face in the industry and I do not want to give in to their nonsense. How do I keep my integrity without being dismembered by those zealots? 
Okay, this is as good a time as ever to ask this dumb question.  How the fuck do you view these images shared on Twitter?

I clicked your link, I see the image, I click it because it is fucking small and it gets smaller and put into a black frame.

I don't click shit to frame it.  What the fuck was I supposed to do?
Sometimes right-click  view image works.
Then type :large at the end of the url. Seriously.
GamerGate needs to die

IN GAS CHAMBER
@Wrecksey:
2014-11-14 02:51:14 UTC

Please share this with a gamedev you know, so they know they're not alone, and that they ARE appreciated! #GamerGate pic.twitter.com ^Imgur

----

^Mistake?leave above link unaltered.)
^Suggestion
^FAQ
^Code
^Issues

Sorry but Ultima Online was crap. Why do you care what Koster has to say? 
 Sorry but Ultima Online was crap.

Why would you say this? :/
Yeah, UO was the last good thing he did.
UO was probably the best and most ingenious MMO ever designed, I still have that box and manual around here somewhere and there are still spells swirling through my head... An Mani, Corp Por, Kal Vas Flam...
Eh, it was good for its sandbox elements but its design doesn't really hold up by today's standards in many places. I mean, any game where you essentially have to run macros in order to compete...
 Sorry but Ultima Online was crap. Why do you care what Koster has to say? 

What has it to do with the debate, that you think the game was crap? Are only people allowed to speak out, that make games you like?
Extreme hypocrisy ahoy! Gawker wants to buy the Usher sextape.

Disgusting clickbait from Giantbomb Says Monument Valley bombarded with one-star reviews after DLC not free. Game currently has 486 1 star out of 37,352 reviews on Google Play

Dishonesty: Feminist Frequency, Part 2 - @cainejw

My father had a few words about Milo's new article, the political undertones of anti-GamerGate, and the smear campaigns that he's seen before.
Sorry for the throwaway.  I hope you'll understand, but I think this is worth reading.

 I happened to read this article yesterday when I was browsing around Breitbart.com.  I ordinarily would have passed it up, but my interest was piqued because you had enlightened me about this whole "Gamergate" thing.  This article quite frankly exposes the ugly underbelly of the Left.  This is the ugly, vile face of the intolerant, hate-filled Socialists and Statists exposed by the likes of George Orwell and Philip K. Dick.  For the neo-Marxists of the Left, there is only one agenda that is to be promoted, and that is theirs.  For them, the "means justifies the ends" and they will resort to the politics of personal destruction taking no prisoners along the way.  Their modern playbook is was written by Saul Alinsky in his "Rules for Radicals".  The strategy is simple.  Your opponents are your enemies.  You must demonize them, marginalize them, make them irrelevant.  Make up lies.  Do whatever is necessary.  These people believe they have the moral and intellectual high ground.  They know better than you do, they are smarter than you, and thus they have the right to dictate the terms upon which you may live your life.  Control of the language is critical. Phililp K. Dick who I mentioned above, was a science fiction writer, and wrote a large number of great sci fi stories including "Minority Report", "A Scanner Darkly" and "Blade Runner".  The guy was a genius.  He famously said in an essay he wrote in 1978: "If you can control the meaning of words, you can control the people who use the words."  George Orwell's great novel, "1984" was a description of a horrors of a dystopian future under Socialism.  If you keep your eyes wide open, you can see these techniques of social control and harassment all around.

Thanks for reading.
The parallels haven't gone unnoticed.
This is not a left or right issue. Both sides have their agitators and manipulators and narrative they are trying to push.

The problem is across all media. We may have an "ally" in Breitbard on this one, but it's only going to be one as long as it's the "left" that get's called out. Once that is over, they will return to their old way.
I agree. There is a lot of conservative crowing about the fact that their perpetual enemies have become the cultural censors for once, but really that's just hoping that we forget about their own attacks on RPG's (Remember the D&amp;D satanist scare?) and of course our own friend Jack Thompson.

Anyone who thinks that ideologues don't try to control the masses through media is just batshit crazy. 
 Anyone who thinks that ideologues don't try to control the masses through media is just batshit crazy.

Left vs. right vs. the (not anymore) silent majority.
For once?  History lesson.

Jack Thompson may have been conservative minded, but Hillary Clinton tried to censor games a few years ago for political points.

In the 1970's and 1980's, Dungeons and Dragons came under fire.  The usual excuses were given (warping the nation's youth).  At the time most of the arguments for banning the game came from the "Religious Right".

In 1954 a campaigning psychiatrist claimed that violent imagery in comic books warps harming the nation's youth.  This got the Churches in an uproar again...but the senators that were holding hearings on comic books were Democrats.

This censorship of art is never just a left vs right thing.  They honestly don't care usually.  It's about political points.

Calm your tits. I'm obviously aware of all incidents of censorship back to the beginning of time and my comments should be taken as absolute positions on everything.
#####&amp;#009;

######&amp;#009;

####&amp;#009;
 Horseshoe theory: (#sfw) 

---



The __horseshoe theory__ in political science asserts that rather than the far left and the far right being at opposite and opposing ends of a linear political continuum), they in fact closely resemble one another, much like the ends of a horseshoe. The theory is attributed to French writer Jean-Pierre Faye. 

In University of Reading academic Peter Barker's  book, GDR and Its History, Peter Thompson  of the University of Sheffield observes that the theory is "increasingly orthodox," and describes the theory as seeing "left and right-wing parties being closer to each other than the centre."

====

Image ^(i) - Horseshoe theorists argue that the extreme left and the extreme right are a lot more similar than members of either group would admit.

---

^Interesting: ^Horseshoe ^map ^| ^Horseshoe ^| ^Natural ^hoof ^care 

^Parent ^commenter ^can ^toggle ^NSFW(/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot NSFW toggle&amp;message=%2Btoggle-nsfw+cm26sji) ^or(#or) ^delete(/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot Deletion&amp;message=%2Bdelete+cm26sji)^. ^Will ^also ^delete ^on ^comment ^score ^of ^-1 ^or ^less. ^| ^(FAQs) ^| ^Mods ^| ^Magic ^Words
Thank you for this.  I'm typically liberal moderate and I dislike anyone co-opting this subject and trying to frame it into childish red vs blue.

This isn't about left vs right.  That doesn't matter.  The TRUTH matters.  Exposing corporate and media interests trying to trick you into spending your hard earned money on "AAA" titles that aren't finished and seek to bleed you further on top of it (looking at you, AC:Unity and Destiny) is what matters.

Ideological left vs right bullshit has no place here.
Sure. But let's be reasonable in all this.

We can absolutely make temporary allies. We can absolutely disagree with any of them at any time for any reason. The immature thing to do is go, "NO, YOU HAVE TO AGREE ON EVERYTHING, OR ELSE!", and then leave. For example, Milo is very anti-net neutrality. I strongly disagree with his stance, and yet he is still my ally. He has said things about gays and transexuals I disagree with, and yet he is still my ally.

Taking the high road, unlike what our opposition would have you believe, does not means trying to look like the most progressive person in the room. It means acknowledging other's differences and being reasonable about them. Sure, some issues are mutually exclusive, and you will reach an impasse. But walking away from a perfectly good situation because you and your ally aren't exactly the same? I don't expect my ally to be me. If they were, we'd just be a unified front all the time. 

Allies are just that: people who are with you now and might not be in the future, and that's okay, because they're best on an issue-by-issue basis. Let me put it this way: Europe fought a lot of long and bloody wars for centuries when they would pick sides based on family, or circumstance, or whatever else. Only a few nations had true rivals they fought time and time again... and then coalitions led to the World Wars, which were worse than previous wars, and fought on the grounds of ideology. It's dumb to fight wars over who married whom, but it's also pretty silly to literally gas people in ideological ground, isn't it? 

The point I'm trying to make with that analogy is that signing eternal "we're in this forever" agreements is bad, and it just leads to polarization of issues. Instead, it's better to have dozens of groups, which agree on some issues and disagree on others, than it is to form two big super-blocs that disagree on everything and can't find room to compromise.
Based on a survey done a few weeks ago, GG seems to range from mid-left to moderate right with an overall noticeable libertarian shift. The SJWs are far-left with noticeable strong authoritarian tendencies.

It isn't left vs. right. It is batshit crazy left vs. reasonable young people.
Very true but right now that opponents of gamer-gate would almost entirely be described as left of centre.
This is a pretty unfair statement to say left as if SJWs and aGG people are the left. They're not. There's this political theory that the further left and the further right you go, the closer you get to the further right and further left.

I've seen readily apparent and many right wing ideals presented in the SJW subculture for years.

Saying this aGG side is "the left", is like saying WBC is "the right", it's simply not fair, nor is it correct.
Very well said! I'd add Aldous Huxley's Brave New World (which I believe more accurately describes the dystopian future we are currently rushing head-long into than the one proposed by 1984) and Neil Postman's Amusing Ourselves to Death to that reading list.
Might as well add Kurt Vonnegut's Harrison Bergeron.
Amusing ourselves to death is great, but I'd be interested in hearing how it relates to gamer gate. I can understand how the affordances of commercial driven advertising journalism necessarily lead to sensationalism, but I can also see arguments about important deficiencies of video games as a medium.
I self identify as a left leaning liberal type person guy and I cringe every time this is framed as left vs right.
Politics is way more complex than one axis from side to side. Waaaay more complicated. I can list five economic theories and it would be detrimental to all of them to simply place them on a left-to-right scale of what political parties endorse them. The graph with the authoritarian versus libertarian axis helps, but it's still not capturing the depth or nuance of real politics, and it still boils "left" and "right" down to some nebulous beliefs. It's sort of the D&amp;D alignment chart of politics: not perfectly accurate, but still better than a slider by a long shot.

I dislike moral guardians. I dislike the moral majority. I'm not going to pretend for a second that this belief puts me anywhere but on the opposite side of wherever they are. But I'm certainly not going to pretend I agree with everything they disagree with as a result.

American politics sucks because it's polarized. I hate how polarized it is. I hate how I can't vote red or they'll probably ban gay marriage or birth control. I hate how I can't vote blue because they're probably just going to raise taxes but never even try to cut military funding. I hate how neither really represents my interests.

Framing me as conservative when I've typically put social issues above fiscal ones is extremely misleading. Framing me as a leftist when I support decentralized authority would probably make a lot of leftists unhappy to have me in the same camp. Oh well. I've accepted that I don't feel like I belong in either group. But I've learned that a lot of other leftists are more than happy to use "right-winger" as an insult for people who are otherwise on their side as a way to defame and insult them.
You are part of the problem if you are a leftist. In fact, this is true in almost all cases.
When someone right-wing starts talking about 1984, I often find it helpful to point out that Orwell was a committed democratic socialist.    
I thought that was obvious. Dick was no Nixonian Republican himself.

Much of Orwell's work, Animal Farm for instance, was a scathing satire of totalitarian leftism from the left. He was railing against much of the same shit we are: .

You can be right-wing as fuck and still get together with leftists to fight against totalitarianism from either of the (artificially created) sides. 
This is true, and it paints most of Orwell's work a certain color.  The power he had, though, was that he could be critical of both his own politics, as well as the opposition.  Like IvanRuinsEverything said, Animal Farm was all about how easily politics and politicians can take socialism, something he really believed in, and turn it into a nightmare of abuse and hatred, all the more insightful for just how much he knew and truly cared about the ideals involved.

It is very critical, but the part that makes it a criticism is his own beliefs filtered through the kind of sociopathy that tends to take people who find they have power.
Seems like already in Orwell's era the most important battle for minds wasn't "right vs left" but "authoritarian left vs libertarian left".

And people still don't get it.
Orwell was against the authoritarian left and authoritarianism in general, remember he went to Spain to fight the fascists. This isn't a left/right thing to me it's more libertarian/authoritarian, you get libertarians and authoritarians on both the left and the right.
The extremists on both the Left and the Right are following the exact same playbook.

For those making silly left vs right comparisons, remember todays left and right are completely different to those in his day.

Also is has very much been the "left" media who have slandered and lied about us for not being "progressive" enough.

It is a left vs left issue yes for the most part but the left has declared us "right".

That should scare us all.
It kind of seems like he doesn't really separate radicals because he just sort of blankets it as "the left".

He might be interested to know Orwell was a socialist.
An argument can also be made to link the far right master of attacking and smear, Newt Gingrich, to the original issue of dehumanizing the opposite side, with his campaigns in the 80s. However it should be made clear that for the most part this is an issue as two other people wisely mentioned - one, this is a relative of the horseshoe theory, and two, this should not be a political issue, or at least not fought as a political issue. GamerGate brings people together across distance, ideological lines, gender, sexual orientation, and more for a singular reason - journalistic ethics. Your father is at least well-meaning, even if he sees this through a very far right tinted lens.
Gah the sheer amount of blind political ideology just made my head hurt!
 The strategy is simple. Your opponents are your enemies. You must demonize them, marginalize them, make them irrelevant. Make up lies. Do whatever is necessary. These people believe they have the moral and intellectual high ground. They know better than you do, they are smarter than you, and thus they have the right to dictate the terms upon which you may live your life. Control of the language is critical.

That you see the same thing from right wing outlets like Fox News shows it's not a left vs right issue. They may be different teams, but it's the same sport, the same set of rules.

I have an aunt that has been entirely brainwashed by the Fox nonsense and talking to her about anything political is about the same as what you see from social justice types, just a different flavour, but same amount of BS.
Your father seems a little mixed up, which is probably not unrelated to the fact that he browses around Breitbart.com. George Orwell was a socialist. SJWs are authoritarian, use some leftist language, and pretend to be anti-capitalist, but they are not socialists by any reasonable definition of the word.
"This is the ugly, vile face of the intolerant, hate-filled Socialists and Statists exposed by the likes of George Orwell and Philip K. Dick. For the neo-Marxists of the Left, there is only one agenda that is to be promoted, and that is theirs."

eyesroll

Tell your old man we're not in the 50's anymore
The Left is not a monolith. Feminist frequency has negative things to say about games that you may disagree with but they aren't calling for anything to be made illegal. If reviews of games are a bit lower in some outlets because of criticisms of how the games portray women that's not censorship either. I can't even understand the idea that free speech happens when critics are silenced. 
they aren't calling for anything to be made illegal.

No, they just want to brainwash everyone into not wanting to make or buy anything that doesn't fit their sensibilities.  

Quoting Sarkesian (7:24 in the video):

We need developers to take responsibility for their communities right? Like what are their games telling their community that's appropriate or not appropriate?  How are their forums allowing conversations to happen or not happen?  What are all of...there are so many things, right, we could like brainstorm a million ways that we could create these structural changes.  And creating structural change means people have to follow those structures."

Fuck her and anyone who defends her.
 George Orwell's great novel, "1984" was a description of a horrors of a dystopian future under Socialism.

I think my eyes just launched out of my sockets, that's how hard they rolled back. Socialism is not a scary thing.
Remember that Orwell himself was a Democratic Socialist
Breitbart was a piece of shit race baiter and a notorious liar. The fact that your father frequents his site says a lot about him.
Ignoring the lack of provided evidence for the statement you just made, consider the logic behind your statement:

The founders of a company, regardless of their current involvement with the company (in this case due to death), reflect the behaviors of anybody who takes interest in said company.

So if I were a Volkswagen enthusiast, by your logic I would be supporting the ideals of the Nazi trade union that founded Volkswagen, regardless of whether or not Nazis now have any involvement with Volkswagen (with the exception of creating the name).

Or if I browsed Vox.com, by your logic I would be supporting the Journolist, a private forum created by the founder of Vox.com (Ezra Klein) for the purpose of denigrating conservatives and (reportedly) conspiring to support the then-presidential candidate Barrack Obama.

Is this correct?

Edit: And once again a GamerGhazi poster never replied to a question. Life goes on.
Stay classy ghazi. No wonder he wanted to use a throwaway.
I still kinda miss him, he was hilarious.


Somebody has been watching PMSNBC.
Although implied that the father is right wing, it is not stated. For all we know, he could equally be a moderate who looks at all sides. 
"Considering the other side makes you literally hitler."
-Ghazi motto
Jesus lol. What a witty comment.
CBC is a public broadcaster making it more "accountable" than corporate media. Send your polite, factually-based complaints to the CBC Ombudsman.

Intel are NOT back advertising at Gamasutra it's adverts provided by another service the same way youtube adverts work really

Not GG Time and Wall Street Journal op-ed pieces against net neutrality by writers who did not disclose their ties to service providers.
This article is floating around /r/technology right now.. Thought I should point it out and see what everyone thought about it? The question being, would it be wise to speak out about it as a group?
The #WAMhammer strikes again! @RogueStarLLC has been suspended.
Check it: 
 His original acount is also still suspended: 
Who's next?
Submission to the CBC ombudsman regarding the GG piece on The National
Hey guys,

I've been sitting on the sidelines for the most part during this whole ordeal but the CBC piece tonight was the last straw.  With that being said, I've decided to lodge a complaint with the CBC ombudsman regarding the apparent bias of the report done tonight and was wondering if some of you would please review it as I don't know that I've provided the proper criticism/complaints to go to an ombudsman.

Video:
Contact form:
Letter:

Hello,

I'd just like to lodge a complaint regarding the piece on The National aired on November 13, 2014 regarding the harassment of women in the video game industry.  I have a few issues with the piece:

 - Nowhere does it cover the opinions of females who are supportive of the #gamergate consumer revolt, especially ones like Liana Kerzner (a Canadian media personality) or Jennifer Dawe (a Canadian game developer)

 - Mia Consalvo's quote regarding student dropouts appears to have no context.

 - It does not mention the #notyourshield hashtag which was used by women and minorities who were part of the #gamergate consumer movement to say that #gamergate is not about harassment.

 - It does not mention the money that #gamergate has raised for The Fine Young Capitalists, a radical feminist group whose sole purpose is to empower and enable more women to work and be involved in the video game industry

Sincerely,

x

Any thoughts on what else I can add?
Yeah, throw this in there
Link the dossier, so that they actually have information and leads to follow.

I also pointed out to them that a) Gamergate flat out rejects harassment, and b) mentioned the efforts of the Harassment Patrol. Oh, and that Anita refuses to do anything about her harasser despite being told who is it and what she can do about it.
Make sure your list isn't in the past tense. It's still ongoing.
Mention the GG Harassment Patrol. Mention GG's discovery and reporting of AS's Brazilian harasser. Source EVERYTHING, and not with spurious partisan sources. Make a claim, back it up like a journalist would. Use the GG wiki, use the dossier. There's enough there.

And don't say "I'd just..." Be more firm and committal. CBC is a national broadcaster in the midst of a PR scandal of their own (the mishandling of Jian Ghomeshi's abuse allegations by staff members). The last thing they want is their credibility challenged right now. Put together a slam dunk for the ombudsman, CC the reporter on Twitter, show them how badly they did their jobs, and get more people to do the same.
It does not mention the money that #gamergate has raised for The Fine Young Capitalists, a radical feminist group whose sole purpose is to empower and enable more women to work and be involved in the video game industry    
    
Remove "radical".
Don't forget to mention that they had the interview of Dawe but purposefully opted not to include it.
Definitely add a link to here:

This is William Usher's article presenting clear facts that the CBC is suppressing stories that don't fit a deliberately pushed narrative. Highlight information from that article. The ombudsman likely won't care about whether the facts of the CBC coverage are right or wrong, so don't argue like you would against someone who is anti-gg. Instead, focus on the fact that a pro-gg voice was interviewed by a CBC reporter, and then that person's story was not run by CBC producers for stated reasons that are clearly false and need to be investigated.
Yo dawgs, you should totally drop the hashtag
So, an often heard argument from anti-GG is that #GG isn't about ethics, it's about misogyny, and that we should drop the (toxic and corrupt) hashtag and start a new one, or even a new movement. 


Now. You may remember that, 3 days ago, TotalBiscuit and David Rosen wrote a blog together in which they agreed to stop using the hashtag and that, among other things, harassment of any kind is not OK and diversity is important. Fast forward to yesterday, TB gets accused of misogyny and compared to Hitler. This was a surprise to me, so I decided to start a discussion on AgainstGamerGate about it to clear things up.


The answer I got, was basically: "Yes, he dropped the hashtag and made statements in which he agrees that diversity is important. That doesn't mean we're gonna stop calling him a misogynist. Because he was a misogynist in the past. For associating with GG." wut
Adam Baldwin has joined the #waronnerds. ALL HAIL ANIMAL MOTHER!

#GamerGate Brings Rise To Aggregation Website BasedGamer.com

A couple of people seem to be accusing gamergate of hypocrisy for supporting and promoting Jennie Bharaj's new BasedGamer website, here's how they are wrong.
So I've been seeing this floating around my twitter feed and twitter is an annoying place to try and make a detailed point, so I figured I would just post something here mainly to get this off my chest.

I have seen a small rumbling in my twitter feed, mostly from user HighlandArrow, that gamergate is somehow being hypocritical for supporting and promoting the BasedGamer project by Jennie Bharaj.

For context, if anyone doesn't know, Jennie Bharaj is setting up a website by the name of BasedGamer intending to be a consumer-based review aggregator, similar to how rottentomatoes.com works for movies.

The criticisms of gamergate promoting this website seem to be:

1) Creating "that which we hate" in creating a review aggregation website.

2) Hypocrisy in making fun of people's use of patreon whilst supporting the indiegogo campaign for BasedGamer

3) Hypocrisy around the idea of promotion of friends' projects

4) Hypocrisy about the idea of nepotism

So let's take this step by step.

1) Creating "that which we hate."

It is a mistake to assume that gamergate is inherently against game reviews, or game review aggregation in general. Many in gamergate are critical of metacritic and its influence in the gaming industry, but this is not to say that review aggregation as a concept is flawed.
 Metacritic is an exclusive club, and while I don't know the exact specifics of who's reviews get counted by its system, needless to say you have to be some level of professional for your game score to get counted into their average.
More importantly, their use a weighted average, which means that some reviewers' scores are considered more important than others. We have no knowledge on exactly how this is decided, nor do we have any sway over who is or isn't considered important, as consumers.
This means that when certain websites choose to give a game a lower score because of some personal belief, such as the game being sexist, it can have a real effect on the metacritic score (depending on which website or reviewer it was) and therefore determine whether the game is considered a success or not.
Metacritic has undue influence on the industry because a lot of large game studios measure their success, in part, by their metacritic score, so gaming review scores by professional reviewers employed by gaming websites have a tangible effect on the people making the games.

Creating a consumer review aggregator allows an alternative place for gamers to judge a games quality. This score is not based off of the opinions of a small elite, but off of the mass consensus of many different gamers with a wide variety of view points. If you only care about score, you can be reasonably confident that the average score actually represents an average of what most people think, rather than a handful of journalists none of whom you might agree with.
If you want to actually read the content of the reviews themselves, whatever your personal and political beliefs are chances are you can find someone who shares those views and therefore can provide a meaningful review to you about the things you think are important in reviewing a game.

In short, it is false equivalence to equate criticism of metacritic as a criticism of review aggregation in general, and the creation of a new and completely different kind of aggregator is in no way contributing to the problem.

2) Hypocrisy in making fun of people's use of Patreon whilst supporting the indiegogo campaign for BasedGamer

There has been quite a lot of joking around about Patreon, mostly when a pro-gamergate supporters receives some kind of abuse there are jokes about "time to set up a Patreon."
This is not a condemnation of Patreon itself, nor is it a condemnation of crowdfunding in general. It is only, specifically, a criticism of using Patreon in a specific way. Promoting yourself through telling stories of bad things that happen to you, especially when this leads to news articles about you, and then shortly thereafter reminding people that you have a patreon they can donate to.
Jennie Bharaj is in no way promoting herself through victimhood, she is known in gamergate for being an outspoken supporter and advocate for gamers in the face of media lies and propaganda. Moreover, she is not asking money simple for existing, but for a legitimate project with clearly define goals.
To say that you can never contribute to any legitimate crowdfunding project, because you once made fun of someone using the same system to get money from sympathy, is creating somewhat of a false dichotomy of the idea that you're either 100% against crowdfunding, or you endorse every possible use of it.

3) Hypocrisy about the idea of promoting a friends project.

The simplest thing I can say here is that promoting a project made by a prominent member of a community is not the same as promoting a friends project. Namely because we're not promoting it JUST BECAUSE she is Jennie Bharaj, but because we actually support the idea.
Also, gamergates problem with promoting a friend's project is, again, not with the basic concept of promoting a friend, but the specific context of a journalist or reviewer, who's job it is to inform their readers of interesting games or projects, telling us we should support or buy a product because they are friends with the developer and without disclosing that information. If a journalist was to review a friends game, and make it clear they were friends, gamergate would have no problem with that.
Gamergate members are neither journalists (for the most part) nor are they reviewing this website in any kind of professional manner, and even if they were, any personal connection (even just as a fan of Jennie) is clearly disclosed just by the nature of their support of gamergate, of which Jennie is a big contributor.

4) Hypocrisy around the ideas of nepotism

So a brief definition of exactly what nepotism is:
nepotism

nptz()m

noun

the practice among those with power or influence of favouring relatives or friends, especially by giving them jobs.
(Taken from google)


So a few reasons why gamergaters supporting Jennie and her website is not nepotism:

a) Most have no personal relationship to her, and promoting the content of someone you are a fan of is not nepotism. I am a big fan of Edmund McMillen, but me telling you to buy The Binding of Isaac is not nepotism because I am not his personal friend.

b) Most supporters of gamergate are not in a position of power nor are they giving that power to Jennie by promoting 
her website.

c) If anyone in any kind of position of power or influencing WAS promoting Jennie's website and they properly disclosed their personal connection, they would not be violating the ethics that gamergate has been asking people to adhere to (see point 3.)


This isn't really strictly gamergate related, or particularly important as the criticisms I'm replying to aren't that widespread or anything right now, but just in case this kind of thing gets picked up by gamergate detractors in a similar way I figured I may as well right this mostly because the criticisms were bugging me because they are pretty much entirely baseless.

Sorry if this got really long, I have a habit of that.
Proposal: Continue GG's outreach through signal boosting positive stories that are being ignored in favor of crab mentality, tabloid BS.
So I was reading /u/maxgarzo's post in this thread.  

Anyone who's aware of the basic idea that inspiring stories drive recruitment knows what an opportunity something as historic as this should be.  Like he says, if your goal is to get more women into the sciences, this is exactly the kind of story you push.  

Of course SJWs are once again doing their best to scare the shit out of women and young girls, and make them think the sciences are a hostile, terrible place.  Like demonic pigeons, they seem to be everywhere, thunderously crapping on everything good with their divisive culture of fear.

Debunking them is great, why not also counter their obstructionism in the most direct way possible?  For what I'm talking about, we don't need to engage them or dispute their arguments.  We just post links to positive and inspiring stories people are missing out on during an SJW shitstorm.  We join or create a hastag and jackhammer twitter with that inspiring positivity.  Sometimes no one is writing about them, so we could make a simple blog post that collects some of the relevant info like /u/maxgarzo's post does.

I'm talking about applying this to everything, gaming, politics, business.  Any worthy story, similar to what the charity arm of GG has done in the past.  Anything the high dreadlords of victimhood don't seem to take an interest in.  Go old school on them, go full Fred Rogers/Carl Sagan on their ass.  Positivity and educational material.

Sample:

 .#KathrinAltwegg #CometLanding #womeninscience LINK

Stealing this from /u/maxgarzo.  Small blog post that has something like:

Altwegg has 23 publications to her name relevant to the Rosetta missions. 
We now know what a comet SMELLS like thanks to her.
She's written a BOOK on the birth of comets.

So what's a good story?  What are we not hearing about while we're doing shirtless wrestling with antiGG?  While SocJus is tearing people down, what's the angle we SHOULD hear that would lift everybody up?

(As an aside, the #womeninscience hastag seems to largely be a PR device for fucking L'Oreal.  Dunno how you guys feel about that or if it ultimately matters.  It feels weird to me.)
I have zero issue with hijacking #womeninscience for this purpose. In advance of probable backlash. "They're hijacking a women's cosmetic hashtag, those women haters!"
What if we had a journalist/blogger/youtuber do an appreciation of women piece that was promoted by us. Call it "hidden gems" or something like that.

We would blow SJW mind. And we would feel good about it because we would be doing a good thing =))))).

I was just watching this (admittedly a promo piece for "Intersteller")-- but it goes into the science and theory of "warp technology." It featured some bad ass women in it that helped with the story of the movie. One was an astronaut and another a scientist. Anyways, this made me think of that. But, perhaps, We need to find more things related to the game world.
Alright alright alright.

This is what I'm talking about.  Anytime they're ignoring this aspect of a story and talking about some guy's shirt.
Goerdie Tait and Mental Health Illness in the Games Industry, A clear problem GamerGate is facing.

TotalBiscuit is vilified on NeoGAF for siding with GamerGate, he's compared to Hitler and Neo-Nazis
TB is called Hitler:
TB is evidently brother in arms with Neo Nazis:

The topic was originally about Assassin's Creed: Unity's performance on the PC. Or rather how it completely bugs out on 2 SLI 980s at a reasonable 1080p resolution. NOT SO FAST, says the Social Justice police, where are his credentials to talk about this? 


Social Justice do what they do best, the Dogpile-No-Jutsu with Echochamber affinity. It's super effective! Thread is locked (having nothing to do with GamerGate), inflammatory posters get gold stars, and vitriol goes unpunished so long as it's anti-GamerGate! They even have a nickcname for us, "gators".


/r/KotakuinAction isn't here to police the web, this isn't a call to arms. I just thought you guys would like to see just how hard NeoGAF has fallen because they don't want to admit they're on the wrong side of history. It's remarkable to see a forum dedicated to cultivating an extreme social justice dogma. 

We're not going away and we are better than you. We're seeing more Social Justice Warriors show their true colors and throw excessive temper tantrums. We don't have to tarnish their image, they're doing it to themselves. Be better than them, merely being neutral pisses them off. 

Where you can't censor, you character assassinate, and when that fails, you double down on the victim complex and go on psychotic self-absorbed rant. 
Kotaku's Jason Schreier wrote an article about Celebrinado Guy (crediting GG supporters)

"Let me know if youve been suspended for ideological reasons  and not for harassment or stalking or threats of violence." quote from Andrew Sullivan regarding WAM and Twitter
I encourage anyone that has been suspended unfairly to contact him. 

#NotYourShield Project Gives A Voice To Those That The Media Have Silenced

Open call for anyone to post a screenshot of a non-ad service Intel ad on Gamasustra. So far I haven't seen one so I assume that Intel didn't reinstate their campaign.
The original statement about Intel reinstating ads seems to have come from Leigh Alexander's friend Frank Cifaldi, and he posted the screenshot that was already debunked. They are trying to defend it now because of muh PR bullshit. 

I could be wrong about this and will accept a verified screenshot of an Intel ad as a refutation of my hypothesis. 

edit:
reposting this from my post below for context:
Yes that's the Google Ad. I reloaded Gamasutra to get that exact ad because it was the one Frank posted. I checked the sourcecode-as far as I can tell it's just google ads, which is why I asked for a non-ad service screenshot.

pastebin of sourcecode
overview of Google Publisher Tags for adsense
and google uses ad choices
Margaret Gel on twitter went through the source code.  Nothing.  Just ad services.
I did the same and all I came up with is Google Ads
Again, playing devil's advocate, but there could be multiple reasons as to why real ads aren't showing yet.  Such as Intel could have paid for an ad campaign already but the starting date isn't until later.  Until Intel themselves say something, I'm not trusting anyone.
his  tweet is the source of their claim and their new PR blitz so this theory literally makes no sense. It's silly 
I'll be the first person to stand corrected if it all turns out to be a lie, but what would Gamasutra gain from doing so?  It's not like one word from Intel won't debunk anything they've said.  On the contrary to what a lot of people here might believe, I don't think Gamasutra is stupid.  So either there's some truth to it, or there's been an epic misunderstanding.  
  
Either way, I'm going to be waiting on Intel.
Like I said below, they did it because Frank jumped on this like an idiot 
Well unless everyone, including Leigh and others, are trying to double down on lying/stupidity...

I think Intel has replaced their ads.

THIS MAKES ME SO MAD I JUST WANT TO shrug.

Let's be honest, people. Intel was our first big ad-pull victory, but it was centered entirely on our complaints over Leigh's article.

Gawker? Gawker's a shithole. The kind of crap Gawker does on a consistent basis is finally getting the negative attention it deserves. But if we honestly thought Intel was going to stay away from a big site like Gamasutra because we were salty over a specific author/article (which is now 3 months old), we really don't know how corporations work.

Guys, this is why we need to be supporting constructive goals. Forming our own websites. Supporting websites. Starting positive gaming projects. Working on organized groups and legitimate, non-tinfoily information packets like the dossier.

I love the fact that we've won a lot of victories with advertisers, I really do. But this shows us that just trying to hit the wallets of sites we don't like is not a silver bullet for all our woes.
 I think Intel has replaced their ads.

Someone esle was having a conversation with that person and according to her, Ad Aggregation - Direct sponsorship..

So she's either horribly bad at her job, or she's lying..

meow

She's using ambiguous language to lie without "lying" 
true.. 

either way, Gamasutra caught in another lie...

meow

She works for GDC, which is owned by the same company that owns Gamasutra. I don't believe her more than I believe them
Look, man, I'm just saying that it's REALLY illogical for our assumption to be that all of Gamasutra is suddenly conspiratorially lying over something verifiable like this.
Why? They could easily say that Intel paid for a non-service and mean ad aggregator and she said that Intel paid to have ads reinstated which is also ambiguous. There would also be no consequence if they were just lying outright.

I and some other people even looked at the source code on Gamasutra and all we can find is stuff like Google Ads. 
Lying site-wide on public channels and on the official twitter account is a completely meaningless and nonsensical action for them to take. Are they LIKELY to receive backlash for doing it? Maybe not. Is there literally ANY reason for them to risk it at ALL? No.
They haven't exactly been the paragons of reason for the last three months.
Yes.  Because our opponents are most feared for their strict adherence to logic.
They did it because Frank jumped on this like an idiot and got retweeted by over 300 people 
I just...I don't think so. The entire site goes into conspiratorial damage control mode because a former writer tweeted something?
it's not about their connection to him it's about how many people jumped on his tweet

feel free to doubt it if you want but there is no evidence for the alternative theory 
And further discussion of the AdChoice logo

Archive. If they are lying about that it is the same issue as Gawker lying about their partners. Serious trouble.
Additionally, DiGRA members have already discussed the ways that Gamasutra pushes their agenda and I'm going to want them gone until that changes
we both know how echochamber work be patient :)
 are trying to double down on lying/stupidity...

the answer
Reading through your post history has raised concerns. I won't call you a "shill" but I will say that we aren't going to ease up on Leigh or Gamasutra.
If you're seriously about to call me a shill I have no problem calling you a massive idiot.
I said I wouldn't call you a shill 
Can't help but be offended. I've been involved since the day the articles were posted and have contributed to this subreddit for weeks. I'm constantly active on Twitter. I made a fuggin' ThunderClap campaign.

I am, in fact, salty.
Anyone here Not banned from the Ghazi ?

If so it might be worth X posting it to see if they'll provide some. They're the ones making claims after all.
They would probably ban you for trying. They're not big fans of evidence and verification over there.
oh I Know I'm already banned from there
yeah somebody already posted one over there.
Consider the following

Ad choice is based directly on your preferences so I don't think that theory makes sense. I do think you can do this with ad sense in general but that doesn't seem to be what is going on here. 
Ah ha! You've stumbled onto their diabolical plan! Everyone is talking about Intel then visiting their site, so the ad that pops up is...INTEL!
Yeah, I'm...not inclined to believe that Intel's reinstated ads. I've refreshed a Gamasutra post about a dozen times and only've gotten the same 3 ads. One for something called Bend Studio, one for Amazon Mobile Analytics, and one for Wargaming...if Intel really WERE back on Gamasutra, why is it that out of 12 times I've only seen these 3 ads recycled over and over?

EDIT: Scratch that, I've seen the same FOUR ads over and over. The other one is for Michigan Film College.
My own screenshot:
There has been some confusion about this, so I will point out that AdChoices is not an "ad service" like Google AdSense. It is an industry association that promotes (according to them anyway) good practices in targeted advertising. The little logo is there to tell you that cookies are being used to try to track your interests, you know, the same stuff all online ads do. AdChoices is created by the Digital Advertising Alliance (DAA).

Links:

AdChoices

DAA


Yes that's the Google Ad. I reloaded Gamasutra to get that exact ad because it was the one Frank posted. I
 checked the sourcecode-as far as I can tell it's just google ads, which is why I asked for a non-ad service screenshot.


pastebin of sourcecode
overview of Google Publisher Tags for adsense
and google uses ad choices 
Yeah good point lets get a secondary confirmation picture. 

And lets stay calm until we get it.

It may well be true, but freaking out now or freaking out 24 hours makes no difference. 
Well, I sent intel an e-mail. Waiting for their response.
This IMO is probably the wisest choice.  Contact Intel and ask politely if their ads are still on the site.
Oh Gamasutra, when you get so desperate to deflect that even your Twitter messages are effectively clickbait. "You'll just have to ask them ;)" - really? So you're wanting us to go email intel on a false flag so you can try to regain the face you lost with your hate campaigns? These people seriously have no spines.
Multiple people on 8chan are reporting that they managed to get the ad
(contains a webm recording, but it'll 404 soon)

Now even if it is an aggregator it's still bad for us since intel should have listed GS as a site they don't want their ads to show up on

But they might also be engaged in lying since Intel does not have an actual campaign on GS.

Either way we need to ask intel about this.
On the other hand, 
I believe they got the adchoices ad, but I don't think that is that big of a deal. Intel didn't think to blacklist them from a program that would just be putting a different ad there anyway. It's irrelevant. 
From GamerGhazi

This is not a picture of an ad on Gamasutra
WHAT DOES THAT FUCKING PROVE? 

COME ON PEOPLE.  GAWKER OPENLY LIED ABOUT MEDIA PARTNERS. VERIFY.

edit: i see you ghazi
Not what we asked for, but keep trying.
Gamasutra is hardly credible, im pretty sure they could risk pissing off intel if its not true, but they dont seem to be very rational either.
Ms. Pac-Man was one of gamings first popular female characters, yet some critics have attempted to claim she is, "Just regular Pac-Man wearing a red bow". I disagree. Frankly, I just don't see it.

Meme's are against the board rules, but I kek'd.

It's an image macro, not a meme. Our spam of meow is a meme, though, so technically we violated that rule countless of times.
According to Dawkins' original definition, GamerGate itself is a meme.
Right. We're screwed, the rules are oppressive.
I too, kek'd. I appreciate the humour posts.
Based Wakka Wakka Wakka Wakka Wakka Wakka Wakka Wakka Wakka Wakka 
Change that red bow to a green infinity sign and you've really got something!
She was popular because her game was better.
Jimmy Wales asks Tarc to leave for being a "POV warrior", calls out Ryulong's BLP misquoted edit of Slate's Auerbach

So someone on the Anti GG side said we should do more to point out how bad Ubisoft have been, I'm too lazy here's TB's video. Bad Ubisoft, Bad stop crapping out half finished games full of micro transactions.

Paid "disruptive advertising" company attacking #gamergate?

We might need more verification before nailing this one. But if true, then it shouldn't surprise anymore me that third party trolls or those within the opposition would resort to such low blows by this point.
holy crap those company photos
Wow.

Can anyone see if they can find some of the other members of the company on twitter?

Also, it seems rather stupid to do disruptive advertising while using your real name that can be tied to the company.  This is almost too stupid for me to believe that it's real disruptive advertising and not just this guy's personal opinions.
Its not like our detractors have been the brightest bulbs in the socket. This seems like the kind of thing they'd do. That website isn't very helpful though.
This guy's getting paid to do this?

I've heard better jeers from seven year olds.

Neener-neener-neeeeener!
Its his first attempts at going native. Give the shill some time to adjust to the culture.
We do it for free!
This is from a couple days ago, did the guy find any more information?
He is a nobody trolling, best to just ignore this clown.
Notice how he puts in all the good keywords to fuck up future statistics analysis around the hashtag.
whoa whoa whoa, nowhere on their site do they say "we fuck with people for money, we disrupt campaigns for money" their company is just called Disruptive. 

Sure, they might be pricks, but we shouldn't assume they're paid to be pricks.
BTFO
That's about as hardcore trolling I'd imagine from a mormon kid from utah.
looks like a trap. their site is an ad site, not a paid troll site. kids from utah don't know how to troll without saying excuse me afterwards, like a canadian says sorry, unless you're a person of color or an atheist. poop, i almost touched it.
@RanGa996:
2014-11-08 18:07:45 UTC

Shills gunna shill #GamerGate
An actual company of paid "disruptors"
archive.today pic.twitter.com ^Imgur

----

^Mistake?leave above link unaltered.)
^Suggestion
^FAQ
^Code
^Issues

Time to e-mail/write to the BBC's Director of news about Gamergate coverage.
I just got my response from the BBC, as with others it's the same bullshit we keep hearing, except they told me to complain to the director of news. So lets do that.

The problem with their excuse for coverage is thus 

"As part of our wider coverage we also heard from a UK-based Gamergater who insisted on being called Sargon of Akkad but would not tell us his real name:
 
 
 Its worth pointing out more generally that the failure of Gamergaters to provide their real identities prevents us holding them up to the same level of scrutiny as the women weve interviewed since the original article about which youve complained was published.
 
 In closing, our technology team wished to reiterate again that the primary focus of their articles has been online abuse rather than the wider GamerGate campaign and its allegations of widespread corruption in the gaming press."

While Interviewing Zoe Quinn (Real name : Chelsea) they were fine with a fake name, while dealing with Sargon this was unacceptable, even though they interview countless celebrities who do the same thing.

His contact info is below, THIS IS NOT A DOX, IT IS PUBLIC INFORMATION.

Director of BBC News, James Harding at:

JamesHardingComplaints@bbc.co.uk

Director BBC News
Zone 02-BR
BBC Broadcasting House
Portland Place,
London
W1A 1AA

E-mail or write your complaint, be polite and get to the point, but lets push this as far as we can. The BBC is only allowed to exist if it reports fairly, they did not, so we must hold them to account since we the British tax payers own them. 
Reject the war on nerds narrative
When partisans use war rhetoric for something they support, it's because they dream of wartime levels of unquestioning loyalty, wartime levels of intolerance for doubt and dissent, and wars' simple pictures of good guys and bad guys.

This goes whether it's a war on terror, a war on women or a war on nerds.

Observe how in the recent "war on nerds" article, the author pulled forth a harassed nerd who snapped and stabbed two of his girl bullies. That is no accident. Here you see a political strategist trying to get you to commit to defending something bad. This is a really evil strategy. They're trying to get you in that cognitive dissonance mindset where you double down on your positions when they are threatened in an argument.

The truth is of course that there are very much nerds on both sides here. Geordie Tait is a neck-bearded Magic the Gathering player with trouble understanding social contexts and anger management issues, did you notice that? And fact is, nerds - nerds like that - are vastly more likely to internalize society's contempt and shrilly try to distance themselves from their image, than they are to snap and hurt women.

There is no war here. What there is, is low status people being abused for political partisan gains. If they keep up this war rhetoric, we have to put a foot down. People are trying to use you.
Ok, what's up with the Nazi and genocide crap?
As a Jew, I am annoyed as hell that Nazis and genocide keeps getting brought up in GG.  It's 2014, why can't they use something a bit more recent and not as cliche? There's so many to pick, Rwanda, Darfur, hell throw in the classic Native American genocide, just keep us Jews out of this, really it's like they want us to start #notyoursolution.
Tropes vs Women in Breakfast Cereal

The Anon Culture is Worth Defending

It goes without saying. Also Wil Wheaton is a fucking dumbass because now everyone will be doxed easier. It's stupid because now in order to avoid some nasty words on the internet, you are actually putting people at greater risk from something in the real world.
Damn fucking straight it is.

Oh, look, RogueStar's second account just got banned. 
Who's next?  Me?  YOU?
I'm not on twitter.

You think that will stop them!!! Really??? They'll create a twitter account for you AND THEN BAN IT!!!!!

Sorry, got carried away.


They thought of everything, the devious jerks.
Old school anon checking in.  That means from the 80's and 90's, of course it's worth defending. What saddens me more than anything is the number of people that didn't listen to us back when the internet was catching on, and we said the same thing.  Anonymity and pseudonyms are important to anyone who values free speech.

The easiest way to shut a person down isn't shouting them down, it's finding out who they are and using intimidation.  That's why it's important, and I'm sure someone will say "but what about nutjob xyz" even nut jobs are allow to have a voice, even if they're crazy and wear two layers of tinfoil.
Hi. Wasn't there a thing about "real names" in the old... and  I mean old... Usenet?
Sorry, I'm too young to remember that time, I'm just curious, since some of our older hackers (the White Hat ones of course) tell stories about that time.
Awareness We're so blindsided that we assumed journalists sympathetic to our side already know about most of the ethical issues going on
Edit: Georgina is interested in covering these stories! 

tl;dr The stories of corruption and ethical breaches are getting lost in the depths of twitterverse, KiA and /gg/ and we can do something about it.


Everyone here knows that our ethical concerns aren't being covered, but what most don't realize is just how bad the situation is. Even Milo didn't know about the Hernandez/Anthropy/Love and Temkin issues prior to posting this, and now he has about 5 good stories to consider covering. We're so used to keeping abreast with news about ethical issues that we assumed that he already knew about these and decided against running it. If he doesn't even know half of all these issues, we can forget about majority of the outsiders looking in and expecting them to know about even a lick of the corruption going on.


Expanding on some of the points made by Milo.

 To get people--especially other journalists--to take you seriously, you need to show wrongdoing, especially if systematic: how scores are manipulated due to financial relationships, how personal relationships lead to positive coverage, money changing hands

The main problem I have with people such as Jason Pontin, a terrific, fair, talented journalist, editor of MIT Technology Review and a friend of mine who would be open to GG's arguments if he found them compelling, is that there is a lot of fury around but not much clear exposure of serious wrongdoing.

Journalists aren't seeing the ethical issues because there's no coverage about the ethical issues. As stupid as it sounds, journalists don't want to touch it because journalists don't want to touch it. It's a catch-22 and the only way to break out of it is to get journalists on our side (or neutral) to cover those stories and have them attract other journalists, but even then, we aren't doing that well on that front.


We have tried reaching out to journalists and it isn't helping much. What we can do is to show journalists who wander in here that there are some good, "juicy" individual stories to cover. Visibility on those existing stories is what we need (the way reddit works makes non news stories hard to find) and one of the best ways that can be done is to place a sticky that specifically covers some of the ethical issues already uncovered. Keeping things simple attracts attention, and links can be provided to more detailed articles for those interested in reading further. The GamerGate Dossier is great and I'm really crossing my fingers that some big impact will come out of this, but it also has a flaw. It's 50 pages and most of the people who read it are the ones who already are interested in the first place. We can make things easier for them by giving them individual stories to focus on, rather than one big picture and expect them to connect the dots themselves. Sucks that we have to do some of the legwork and inform them on who to interview/contact, but I guess that's how it feels like to play on lunatic mode. _Easy modo? Only kids play in easy mode!!_ Milo's article about Brad Wardell garnered attention because it's a story, showed a human side of this and the effects of unethical coverage ultimately causing people harm. 


We can also inform sympathetic journalists of potential good stories to cover and see if they are willing to do so.
Again, from Milo.

What I need help with is understanding who's who, timelines, collecting evidence, etc., because this world is still new to me, in reporting terms, and I don't know everyone in it, nor where people hang out, who posts where, etc. You guys know all of this.

If you can establish that someone was writing, especially positively, about someone they were in a sexual relationship with--even living with--without disclosing it... well, that is a story. That is wrongdoing. That is unethical.

So rather than tweet about it all day, help me to write it up by sending me what you know--with evidence. It's my job to verify everything independently, fact-check your claims, and seek comment, in most cases, from the people concerned before writing up and publishing.

Having a published story out there is powerful, in a way that thousands of tweets, which evaporate as soon as they are sent, are not. It helps the outside world to understand why you're so frustrated. At the moment, they don't. Help me to help you.


This lack of coverage also ties in with another problem we have with PR. People don't understand why we are so angry and might assume that we really are angry because of "women in gaming". Majority of the people are going to wikipedia to read the article and form their conclusions based off of it. We have facts on our side but few good articles exposing those corruption and mostly chan-like images detailing such practices. The other side has 'credible' news sites helping with the smear campaign. The lack of coverage is the next big reason (after Ryulong and his cronies) that we can't do anything much on wikipedia because we lack enough 'credible' sources to cite. Jimmy Wales challenged us to write an article to see how different it'll be from the one currently on wiki. Here's the catch though. We have the facts, but we can't add majority of those in simply because we can't cite any credible sources. Call it paranoia if you want to, but at this current state, it's set up for failure. One or two links that do cover ethical concerns can simply be brushed off "no two sides" because it's too insignificant. But if we have a few dozen, it'll be harder for them to brush off without looking like they are trying to push a POV.


To put it simply, by increasing the visibility of the known ethical problems, we gain more ammo to win the PR battle. So send those emails... to journalists too! 

Pardon my formatting, I'm still new to this. Do tell me if there are any other emails I should include (or remove because they don't want their emails to be flooded) and thanks for reading this!
TFYC: AfterLife Empire Update

I think we need to address the severe need to help those with mental health issues that is obviously rampant in anti-GG sides.
After watching this brand new video I honestly feel the need to talk about this issue. Here is the video.

After viewing the past few months with how people have been acting not just from GG towards media sources, but media towards GG. It is frankly very evident that there are major mental health issues permiating anti-GG to a very extreme degree. A degree of which needs to be addressed now because it could honestly become dangerous for people who are Pro-gamergate legitimately.

I know some people may say to me that I am worrying to much about this stuff. I am sorry but after dealing with other peoples mental health issues in my life I can honestly say with 100% certainty that if these people do not seek help now they will get worse and eventually become a danger to others and themselves. I have seen this firsthand!

Most issues with Anti-GG side of things is immense sociopathic tendencies with how both Antia Sarkeeson and Liegh Alexander treated a young boy who was shot to death as their own puppet. A general disconnect with reality, The entirety of Gamerghazi's existence has a lot of that but also Neogaf as well.

A general lack of empathy judging by how the past three days have been and how some people wish to recreate the holocost but on gamers. (The holocost killing millions of people. I am sorry but anyone who takes this shit lightly is on my permanent "I fucking despise you" list. I don't fucking take millions of lives like that and say you would want to do such a thing again pisses me off so much I legitimately see red.)

A great deal of control issues with how they keep trying to regain control of the media but are almost constantly failing due to their obvious bias. I mean by pretty much everyone on the other side. I have a lot of personal experience with this kind of mental illness. The more they lose control they get consistantly more and more out of their minds.

Extreme narcissism. Another mental illness that I personally have felt the brunt of. This one is a bit more hidden but the fact is that most of these people are doing this mostly for attention than anything else and to feel holier than thou against what they feel is a movement against females playing video games. (Which for the Googleplex fucking time is not what the movement is about.) However when proven wrong a narcissist will stand by their statements no matter what and will actually redouble efforts and they will try and destroy you emotionally and silence you to keep your trap shut to prevent more dissent. Trust me, I know. I think Srhbutts suffers really badly from this and he and or she needs help as fast as possible because if this kind of attitude is turned towards personal family, it can honest to goodness destroy a family from within, trust me, I know.

Most of these also help out with how hypocritical the other side has been towards Gamergate since most of these conditions basically force people to never admit they are wrong and will honestly construct fantasies within their delusions to make Gamergate look worse. Neogaf as we are currently speaking is becoming this.

Eventually Gamergate is going to win. Not even because of the E-mail campaigns or even if we actually get media attention on our side. But because the other side of the debate is filled with people who have legitimate problems that need mental help as fast as possible and eventually their drama and problems will collapse their side of the argument.

This isn't to say that some people on our side don't have problems. I do think there is a bit of Narcissists on our side but in all honesty, even those few cannot compare to the sheer numbers that the Anti-GG side has had for these three months.

I don't feel really angry at them. I pity them because they need help. Sure, you can hate Gamergate just fine and dandy, that's completely okay, but the methods they have used against Gamergate scream mental illness to me with how ferocious and honestly illogical the attacks of been. Even then I do worry that eventually someone on Anti-GG will take their threats a lot more personal. These are people who are completely willing to send dead animals/knives through the mail to make their point so I do worry actually. Legitimately so.
IGDA Puerto Rico denounces Geordie Tait

Gawker Take down Question
I was thinking about the Gawker Media take down and was wondering. Are we only focusing on Kotaku and "Gawker"?

Because Gawker is still getting funds from their other subsidiaries like:
 
 Deadspin  Sports
 Screamer  Deadspin's soccer hub
 The Concourse  Music, food, sports-related pop culture
 Valleywag  San Francisco, Silicon Valley and tech gossip
 Gizmodo  Gadget and technology lifestyle
 Sploid  News, futuristic ideas and tech
 Indefinitely Wild  Adventure Travel in the Outdoors with Wiley
 io9  Science/Science Fiction
 Jalopnik  Cars and automotive culture
 Truck Yeah!  Trucks and truck culture
 Jezebel  Celebrity, Sex, Fashion for women
 Lifehacker  Productivity tips

Maybe we should also be scanning these sites and writing their advertisers. Just wondering what others think.
Jezebel is just as trashy as the original Gawker, they absolutely should go--these are the same folks who think that domestic violence is hilarious and empowering (if done against men, of course), that all gay men are inherently misogynistic, and that men can't get breast cancer.
Jezebel started the clickbait feminism and really have to go. The sooner the better. They also have a weak spot, they trash ad campaigns perceived as sexist according to their humorless scale so hard that they're pulled immediately, wasting a ton of money for brands. 
By Gawker, we mean the Gawker media group, not just a single blog.
Yes.
Considering that all Jezebel is is hate I doubt their advertisers care.
I agree. Is there an internet watchdog group that calls out lies similar to media watchdogs?
Of all these subsidiaries, I'll be saddened that Lifehacker has to be taken down...
Did you see the interview of its founder? He want to take the English right wing tabloid model and apply it to left wing internet publications, complete with outrage porn and smear campains. Burn that shit down and send the ashes into the sun.
It is a shame, but I believe the big issue is as long as Gawker can draw funds up from their other "blogs" we'll never have a significant impact on the overall company.

They'll just redistribute from the profitable ones to keep the failing ones going.
IO9 is actually a pretty awesome blog with great writers. Most happen to be women too.

I remember the first time Gawker tried to place native ads in there without mentioning they were sponsored content. 
io9 published an illustration I did without offering payment or credit. When called on it, they told me I should be grateful for the "exposure." I made them take it down, then a few months later they did it again.

All of Gawker Media is rotten to the core.
Ouch that's harsh :(
Sounds like Gawker's MO...
The only way to take them down is to make doing daily business impossible.
we honestly don't even know if its having any effect already, look at what Intel just did, just because they say they won't advertise with the company anymore doesn't mean they can't go through another company that happens to advertise on their site. So far there aren't any reports of Gawker's revenue going down and there is no reason to suspect the advertisers that already said they won't advertise, aren't going to do what Intel did. 

TL:DR why expand the operation when nothing is happening already
Intel is doing paid advertising on Gamasutra. It is not an ad-service.

VIdeo Games in Sweden may be given equality rating.

It just floors me
Do you have any idea how bad this would have gotten if it really was about harassment. I am serious. 3 months now, something that started on chans. 

Pro-tip = you can't.

But go on, defend those companies. You know what, let's counter email against Gawker!!!!!! 
Can We Please Reclaim "Feminism"?
I am a feminist. I am a supporter of women's liberation. Millions of women around the world are still persecuted for their gender. I believe women are as intelligent and deserving of freedom as men. As human beings!

The people attacking GamerGate aren't feminists. They don't believe women are equal. They believe they're too frail to withstand criticism (even though plenty of women have gamed since before they all got up in arms and I never heard any of the women I gamed with complain that the gamer-talk was too harsh for them to handle). They believe women need protection by men, and that they cannot live or stand up for themselves, evidenced by the many men demanding people donate to the patreons of "harrassed" woman developers/journalists. 

They believe that women do not deserve agency, as evidenced by their reaction to #NotYourShield. Women are either not deserving of a voice, because they don't hold the views that a woman should have in their minds. Or, these women are too stupid to formulate their own opinions, must be brainwashed, and therefore must be educated by the largely male journalists and "SJWs" (how I loathe the term). They aren't fighting for social justice. They're telling women how they should think, that they are too stupid to think for themselves, and don't deserve to have their opinions heard if they aren't the right opinions for a woman to have. 

The people who are GamerGate is targeting are in the majority men, white, and upper class, working in journalism or software development. These are not feminists. These are not SJWs. These are sexists. Unless a woman agrees with them, she doesn't deserve to be heard or thought of as an equal.

Join me in taking back "feminism." We are feminists, demanding that women be treated equally to men and that their voices be heard (even if you disagree with them), and we disapprove of the way our enemies have been casting women as weak and unable to think for themselves.

GamerGate is a battle of feminism vs. sexism. It's just most of the feminists are on the GamerGate side.

(Also, while I'm at it, can we address how the most racist/vitriolic comments regarding "uncle toms" has come from the anti-GamerGate crowd trying to denounce #NotYourShield and all of the dismissing/minimizing of awful tragedies have come from the anti-GamerGate crowd regarding the Holocaust, KKK, and ISIS? GamerGate is also a battle of racists vs. non-racists. But most of the racists are on the anti-GamerGate side.)

Edit: I've seen a lot of comments saying that men and women are paid the same but without sources. Could someone please provide one next time they make the comment? I would like to educate myself. I'll remove it for the time being, until I can do more research myself. I hope the message is more palatable to you, now.
Legitimate Question What do we make of the #Waronnerds issue?
Recently, a generally favorable article on the Daily Caller was posted on GamerGate, one which has apparently (and please correct if I'm wrong) been the source of the tag #Waronnerds. Though not exactly very nuanced and with a dash of a politically charged "right vs left" angle, it's been retweeted by Adam Baldwin on Twitter.

...And some aren't happy to say the least. Among the reasons is that the article in question allegedly equates GamerGate to the stabbing of two girls by a mentally unhinged man (via a Daily Mail link) and Elliot Rogers. Thus we shouldn't even entertain the author for using such questionable comparisons. There are also concerns that GG is being co-opted into a politically partisan angle.

Personally, I don't really see the moral equivalency being made between the stabbings and GG in the article, though I do think it attempts to paint GG in a more politically partisan manner (though you're very much welcome to prove otherwise). In fact, I think the article, despite the Daily Fail link, does have valid points. And yet, I remain rather torn.

Just what do we make of #Waronnerds?
He wasn't equating anything. It was simply a statement that if you fuck with someone enough they'll retaliate. Sometimes violently if they are aggrieved enough and in the wrong disposition. The violence doesn't describe us and it was never claimed to. Fact is, GG (the event) is messy and it is largely driven by a hatred of nerdy cultures whether it's gamer culture, channer culture, or what have you.

If conservatives are the only ones who will shed a positive light on our cause, then we don't really have a choice in the matter. We certainly aren't getting a fair shake from the left. It's better to have half the country that you don't normally align with on your side than it is to have no one on your side even if it's just a temporary alliance of born of mutual usefulness.

I don't tweet under hash tags... and I don't intend to start now, but if #waronnerds can be a separate thing split off from GG it's probably a good thing over all. I'm not saying any of us should take up the mantle, but the more public all this shit (media corruption and cultural control in general) goes, the better. The dirty politics need to be exposed and I don't care at this point who exposes them.
 It was simply a statement that if you fuck with someone enough they'll retaliate.

i didn't understand it that way either, i thought it was an example for how the deeds of one disturbed person with clearly misogynistic tendencies was used as an example how nerds are by the opposition. 

something like: nerds are gross misogynists, look at elliot rodgers
From Article

Those girls didnt just suffer for their own sins, but the sins of every bully who came before them.

This part reads to me that gamergate was brewing for a long time.

i thought it was an example for how the deeds of one disturbed person with clearly misogynistic tendencies was used as an example how nerds are by the opposition.

I don't get how you concluded that was misognynistic. The guy was disturbed for sure.

EDIT: nvm you are talking about eliot rodgers.
well he wrote he hated the girls for always choosing those "dumb popular" guys, and he also hated the popular guys. of course he was disturbed, but he also blamed girls for his misery

we can argue if he was doing it for misogynist reasons, but he clearly made misogynist comments in his manifesto

edit: just checked your first quote again, that's talking about another guy, i was talking about elliot rodgers not ryan walker, sorry for the confusion
I skimped through his manifesto, guy was a misanthrope more than misogynist. 
He really hated everything that he finds of value, because he couldn't have it.

People are reading too much into a metaphor.

It was merely saying everyone, everyone, has a breaking point. Not everyone actually encounters it, but those that do, the results can be downright explosive.

For Walker, he violently outbursted and injured two girls who were part of a system of torment for him.

For Gamergate, it sparked a revolt that has been going on for three months, and shows little sign of slowing, despite people claiming otherwise.

That literally is all that comparison does.
That's my initial thought as well. Still, the author could have chosen better examples rather than the...questionable ones used.

Still, a great strength of GG is that we can discuss this openly and more or less civilly. 
Perhaps there might have been other examples. But there are many parallels between Walkers story and Gamergate.

Plus, it signal boosts a story with issues that NEED to be discussed before more ~~kids~~ people like Walker hit their breaking point. He didn't do that for no reason. The systematic abuse pushed him too far. Something needs to be done about that, as it's existed for decades, probably even longer than that. 

Having experienced even a sampling of what Walker must have, I feel confident in saying that little has changed since the 14 years that I've been out of public schools.

 Still, a great strength of GG is that we can discuss this openly and more or less civilly.

True dat. And it's that open and civil discussion that has won over many supporters. Seen so many lurker posts, and even the odd anti post saying they've gone pro (or at least neutral) in recent days. Refreshing to see (and I upvote every one of those threads)
Point taken on all counts. At least though, we're open to change and understanding. Compared to certain subreddits and sites where one would be banned on site or declared a persona non grata for disagreeing.

The author still got it totally wrong when he painted Silicon Valley as a New Jerusalem for the entire tech generation. It's poppycock.

The world of hip tech startups is looked upon with mighty skepticism and people don't trust the internet overlords. Being introverted and having deep interests has nothing to do with being socially awkward, nevermind white or male.

Well, you do have a valid point there. Though it doesn't help that Silicon Valley is just a relatively short drive away from that hub for hipster-activists and so-called SJWs (the locals of which have their own beef with): San Francisco.
Tech has been invaded by SJWs, the conferences now have hair-trigger anti-harassment policies. There's been -Gates, it's gotten XOXOy in some places for sure. But that has nothing to do with the wider population of gamers. There are techies who don't game and gamers who don't know tech.

The problem with the gamer stereotype is that it's schizophrenic. They're both misogynist white dudebros, and awkward white neckbeards with mushroom hats. The article doesn't support the first, but repeats the latter, and I think a lot of people are glossing over that because the rest of it is pretty good.

Same happens in tech btw. There is now talk of "brogrammers", while simultaneously berating tech nerds as fat male neckbeards who don't leave their basements. SJWs need to pick one, I for one have met 95% nice people and then just a bunch of douchebags who think money is a substitute for skill.
I had no idea of the opening statement and its connotations. I thought it was pressuring pushed over the edge. Apparently, several people took that opening a little too seriously.

I wouldn't say that he used it blindly, but I agree on /u/DeeDoubs that:

It was simply a statement that if you fuck with someone enough they'll retaliate. Sometimes violently if they are aggrieved enough and in the wrong disposition.

this was his intention for the opener. It, in general, doesn't matter if the person was killed, or someone was killed on another day; push a person far enough, and they are likely to break. Kid might have had problems before, for all I know.
Agreed. Everyone has their own breaking point. 
The #WarOnNerds is inseperable from Gamergate itself.

Every single one of Gamergate's opponents have viciously insulted gaming by deploying nerd stereotypes. Read anything by Leigh Alexander - she's been using the same stereotypes to mock and pathologize gamer culture for literally years.

The fact is that SJW invasions follow a pattern; parts of "nerd" culture (or things seen to be nerdy) have been invaded one by one. Comics, Speculative Fiction, Tabletop gaming, Atheism (which Rebecca Watson explicitly described as a "land of the nerds" in an article for eSkeptic) and Video Games. Every single time they invade they basically go on about how terrible it is that the subculture is full of socially-awkward men who don't groom or dress properly (i.e. in a way that they find acceptable). 

GamerGate is one of several battles in a larger war. 
I'd drop it. There's a lot of stuff to go into detail, but it's not worth it. 
The #waronnerds is probably tangential at best.
It is probably part of what caused the built up resentment that sparked GamerGate. Ultimately, I think going down this road is a distraction and ultimately divide peoples efforts and attention.

A lot of people in GG probably relate, but not all.
When I think about it, it seems like the \#waronnerds article is a perfect psychological weapon against nerds. It's designed exactly around our typical blind spots.

Here is how a nerd will perceive it: "The story technically makes sense, I am okay with it."

Here is how everyone else will perceive it: "Stabbing girls??? Horrible!!! So, is this the shit those nerds support? We need to stop them!"

In a media battle, it is not enough to think whether something technically makes sense. The media war is all about associations. If the opponent makes you associated with something negative, they win. The average person will not care about anything else. So you will be happy to be technically correct when everyone else is wrong... and then you will be surprised why everyone unfriends you on social networks, and why your boss fires you.

Yeah, it shouldn't be like this. But it is. Associating this with yourself is a losing move. The media already associated us with a lot of shit... and the only good part is that it also starts getting boring. People can read "evil gamergaters oppress LW" only so many times until they get tired. So they need to associate us with some fresh shit to make readers interested again... and well, this is it. Don't cooperate.
I make nothing of it. I don't know what \#warOnNerds is but use nerdCaps please.
Yeah. No one wins a war on nerds. Especially on the internet. 
I like the narrative, and I think it will help us to gain sympathy. We need public sympathy so we can have more support. (Proceeds to be downvoted to hell)
I think you're reading too much into a single metaphor, it's a good and well-written article.

That said, I think that leftist moral authoritarians and the gaming press (and the latter is partially comprised of the former) are both responsible for directing vitriol against us.

It's clear at this point that the Left won't give us the time of day. If the Right will, then we should be happy that at least someone wants to work with us.
I've started a gamer advocacy assn that hopes to target hate speech and slurs, as part of the larger ANTI-CYBERBULLYING-INITIATIVE. I want to see words such as "neckbeard" and "manbaby" be regarded in the same way as the n-word.
Just going to say gamergate has been political pretty much since the beginning. Going on about cultural marxists , SJWs, and "libertarians vs authoritarians" and then saying "we aren't political!" when it suits you is very disingenuous.
I don't think many people are saying it's not political, they're just saying it's not a "left vs. right" issue (hence the word partisan). Like you said, it's libertarian vs. authoritarian.
The article never used "right" or described gamers as conservative in any way.  It just described the SJW element as the "radical left", which is accurate.  

The only people painting #gamergate as conservative are the anti-gg people who assume that anyone who disagrees with them is a gun-toting-bible-thumping republican.  
Over the last few months many have said gamergate isn't political. In fact a couple months ago almost everyone was adamant gamergate had nothing to do with politics.
So we can't discuss the thought process behind the ideologies of those against us in casual conversation and still be focused on reforming ethics in games journalism?
If you are criticizing someones political beliefs it is political.
The only people saying left vs right are the other side, we are saying we are mostly liberal with a mix.

It is however the left leaning media we are against.
I'm not denying that GG has a political angle, in all its diversity. And I definitely agree that it's more pro-diversity and "libertarians vs authoritarians" than any liberal, conservative, etc. angle.

The issue that some have brought up lately is whether the article is encouraging a particular political angle at the expense of everyone else and creating unnecessary conflict amongst ourselves.
If this creates conflict in gamergate it's solely gamergates fault. If I can get along with furries on twitter people should be able to handle right-wingers seeing this as a fight against the left-wing. Really it is a fight against some of the fringe left and there are people in gamergate on the right.
True. If anything, we shouldn't overreact.
GG basically fell into the trap, but powered thru, and ended up starting a much needed culture war aswell, but that was because of the attack narrative against GG.
Sweden explores special labels for sexist video games

GamerGate showing up at Germany's no 1 mainstream news site this morning. It's all about harassment. Smashed in comments.

Wikipedia Article Concerning the #GamerGate Controversy Battles its own Controversy

Kill them with Kindness
What's become clear to me is that those who are still actively involved and/or prominent in the anti-gamergate circle are doing it out of pleasure - they really seem to be enjoying the conflict.

Perhaps the best way forward is simply to deny them that conflict.  Where they rage and snap and snarl, we should offer support and kindness and friendship.

Those who exist on the extreme edge (on both sides) are there because they find value in lashing out, in attacking and spreading hatred.

I think we should meet them head on and, where they would throw punches, we embrace them with love.

That will really, really fuck their shit up.

No, but seriously, they say that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result.

Perhaps instead of clashing with extremists head on, on the battlefield, we try something that Humanizes instead of encouraging them to spread hatred.
The Catch 22 Of Video Game Journalism - Erik Kain

Good stuff from kain. I do think in all his lamenting the popularity of hypetrains he has forgotten one sizable demographic - the older generation of gamers who have long since forsworn magazine-style gaming sites,  having correctly surmised that they their content is largely written by hacks and aimed at children. 

This demo seems almost overrepresented in GG, from what I've seen. And maybe it's not as numerous as the cod kiddies,  but in terms of purchasing power it's the white whale. 
I mean look at tb - the grumpy uncle of games critics, he's basically minting his own currency at this point, and he's about as anti - hype as you can be while still actually enjoying the medium. But then he's all these unfair advantages like intelligence, sincerity and a genuine interest in games,  i guess, so maybe it's not fair to compare. 
I'm so used to dealing with SJW's at this point I read that as "white male" and had to reread several times to make sure "whale" was not a typo.
We're the white whale? Does that make the game journos Captain Ahab?
I only got one problem with his article, in that he says, if you don't like SJW writing, then you should read other sites, that's the problem, mainstream gaming journalism is bloated with this type of shit, it's a quasi monopoly, there's no competion, that's why GamerGate exists, luckily lately IGN seems to be the only one out of this bullshit, and maybe GameSpot (though they've written about it in the past)
Nice to see kotaku getting all the credit for this sudden and completely planned switch to more ethical coverage...

No outside influence at all..
The thing about Kotaku's changes is that most people don't hate kotaku because they're part of the hype-train or because of their scores, they hate kotaku because their site is full of poorly written clickbait and relationships with devs (reminds me of Jason Schreier asking what people thought was wrong with games journalism and then declaring that most people said review scores despite it not even being in the top 3 concerns


A similar thing is the praise IGN seems to be getting here because they don't push the SJW agenda and disclose some relationships even though they still have a business relationship with the companies they're supposed to cover.


When presented with a choice between sex with a dev and sex with a hooker paid for by a dev, a journalist should choose neither. Kain seems focused on the latter while KIA/8chan is more focused on the former and it just leads to praise for what each side views as the lesser evil when we shouldn't be praising either evil.
 When presented with a choice between sex with a dev and sex with a hooker paid for by a dev, a journalist should choose neither. Kain seems focused on the latter while KIA/8chan is more focused on the former and it just leads to praise for what each side views as the lesser evil when we shouldn't be praising either evil.

I think you pretty hilariously summarized a major dividing line for most gamers and their opinion on gamergate.

I'm firmly in the latter camp; sex with a dev is bad but nothing to worry about too much, sex paid for by the dev is the ultimate evil.   I don't really care that some guy slept with some no name random dev who no one knows or cares about.  This shit happens all the time in every form of business and journalism.  No one cares, no one gets fired for it, no one goes to jail for it.    But taking bribes, kickbacks, donations, free services, etc, is actually illegal in most instances and at best you get insta fired.
 I'm firmly in the latter camp; sex with a dev is bad but nothing to worry about too much, sex paid for by the dev is the ultimate evil.

I see it simply as one side having more money than the other one.

And if you've been paying attention, it's very clear that the indie clique has been trying very hard to be as corrupt as the AAA, even exceeding them in some respects, the big sites don't ask devs for a fee to enter their rigged awards shows.




I personally put very little to no value on an article or two for some indie dev that no one has ever heard of, for a game no one wants.  This crap happens in every industry, from police and lawyers, to auditors and politicians (news flash, people with similar interests tend to be friends or even date).  The biggest issue here is the lack of a minor disclosure, and in a number of cases that are being held up by gamergate, it's probably not even be enough to have a disclosure in traditional print media.  It's wrong, but if we're making a "top 100 things wrong with the gaming press", "A handful of people have friendships with a developer" probably doesn't make the list.  

Compare that to a major website hosting a release party for the top AAA developer, native advertising galore throughout the industry (including from sites and web personalities I like), negotiating scores for release dates and embargoes, free gifts, and the whole host of other activities which would get people fired, be declared illegal, or even result in jail terms in other business situations.  It's pretty clear where the focus should be put.

I'm far more worried that Walmart, Best buy, and Gamestop colluded Sony and Microsoft, and the major developers to screw over all the gamers, then I am that some youtuber's ad representative had sex with a PR agency's salesperson, and you should be too!
Do you want credit or do you want results?
Sucking up to Totilo isn't "results." 
Kain is a professional doing his job. He's not a pundit for us.
He's not a pundit for us.

We knew that from the very first article he wrote about GG.
Yeah.  Kotaku claiming that they are going to "change", while still maintaining the party line about gamergate isn't the sort of change I'm interested in.  Makes it clear that it's PR, meant to pacify people.  Which is all I expect from them.  

I wonder if it would do any good to write to the people who do these news aggregator apps and web sites and demand more variety from them?  Every one I see always goes to the sites known to have the "correct" political agenda.  
Helping kotaku look good isn't results, we are here to burn them down not to make them look good.
Exactly. We're at the stage now where the bully is scared and pretending to play nice. Not falling for it. Not turning my back.
That's exactly it. People don't be fooled.
Youre here to burn them down. Youre entitled to that view. But dont act like its everyones view because it isnt.
Err yeah I think we pretty much are here to kill kotaku. I think I can speak for "most" people.

Other websites you can talk about saving but hell this subreddit is named after kotaku...they represent the worst.
I would dispute that claim. Please either deliver proper evidence to back your claim up or stop making claims based on your assumptions/feelings. We are not the opposition, "feelz" dont count as an argument.

And no, the subreddit being named after Kotaku does not count as proper evidence either, since the reasoning behind that can also easily be the fact that they were the ones involved in the original scandal surrounding Greysons lack of professionalism as well as unethical behaviour, among other factors.
It's hard to do evidence about that, if you'd like to make a straw poll of use the search function to find out though.
Burden of proof is on you. Dont make claims you cant back up.
Okay, I'll prove it by burning kotaku to the ground.
The morons and drones may down vote you but you are absolutely right. It's not hard to see that change has come to games journalism. It is by no means anywhere near where it should be (at least in my opinion) but there is no denying that progress has been made.

Erik Kain is one of the best when it comes to this. He is by no means Pro-GG (then again I'm not necessarily Pro-GG as a rule) but he is an ethical journalist that has pushed for dialog and discourse on this from the very beginning.
I'd appreciate acknowledgement that they perpetuated a one-sided narrative by ignoring death threats levied against us (and blaming us for a few nutjobs like celbrinando making death threats) 

Otherwise yes, I think this is a bit disingenuous on Totilo's part. (note: haven't read the kain article yet, not commenting on that)
great read. him and aurebach deserve a lot of credit when it comes to examining gaming press
You can slowly see things starting to change for the better and he's a big part of the reason why.
change for the better

Keep contacting advertisers and starve the corrupt websites. That's how we change things. We don't rely on some guy at Forbes.
Jesus christ you're an idiot . . .
A semi-supportive article on GG that fluffs Totilo's reputation isn't something to be happy about. Seeing that doesn't make anyone an "idiot."
To be fair it's his opinion on it and while I disagree with Totilo on a lot of things he was also one of the few willing to cross the line and have a discussion on the issues.


So, what's the line between hype and reporting?  To use his example, a new Mass Effect trailer would be news and not just hype.
So Kotaku did something very interesting and admirable recently...

Gawker is rotten to the core. Nothing is going to rehabilitate that slime pit.
Doritos and Mountain Dew are placed on that endcap at Target because PepsiCo pays for them to be put there. Not sure Kain realizes that. Companies like Pepsi even will deliver product and stock the shelves in stores to be sure they get what they paid for.
Pretty good article by Kain.
I might be an anomaly but I would really like to see more investigative and longform pieces. I have dozens of bookmarks of articles that I read through whenever I have the time on many different subjects. If they're really good I might even consider paying. Case in point, the "Final hours" series by Geoff Keighley is awesome. The level of access he had to do those pieces is great. Those pieces give a lot of insight into the development processes of these games and the people involved and I enjoy reading that stuff. Studios are slowly starting to realize that people want this info, considering SOE, RSI/CIG (Star Citizen) and numerous other studios are opening up more and more about their internal processes and the way they communicate with their fans/potential customers.    

I cannot imagine how disappointing it must be to put dozens of hours into a great in-depth, couple thousand word article to see it blown out of the water, in terms of traffic, by a short piece about a new trailer. It doesn't deserve it. It deserves to be read, shared and discussed. Does that mean that you shouldn't invest in doing these types of articles? I would say no. Those articles are what sets aside a great publication from good publication. Vox has one of the best publishing platforms out there right now, in terms of what they can do technically/visually with their content. It is mind blowing. These are the type of articles I used to subscribe to/had to buy magazines for.   

I think this article is not critical enough on the aspect that the symbiotic relationship between press &amp; PR/publisher is having a negative impact on the press. It's a necessary evil. The negative lies in the fact that don't want to do anything to place the relationship in jeopardy. In short, the big guys have power over the press. On the indie side of things it is the other way around. There the press has an enormous amount of power over the developers. They can literally make or break games/developers.  

I can only hope that at some point someone (writer/publication) is willing to go the extra mile. It might not pay off at first, but I have no doubt that high quality informative articles will gain you loyal readers in the long run.
One thing I don't particularly like about what Kain says is that we all need hype, as if to say a video games press that didn't revolve around previews, interviews, etc. would fail because we would be craving for the latest news on games up to the release. The problem with this argument is that these are the expectations created by the industry itself. The readers will be able to adjust to this paradigm shift as long as the content is of good quality. I think it's a good article overall, but I just don't like the picture he paints, making us sound like some rabid fanatics foaming at the mouth for the smallest bit of info on a game.
Last I checked, Kain is the second most popular Forbes writer. He even did interviews with TotalBiscuit and the like on Gamergate. Good on you Kain.
This kind of seems like a low blow. I mean... I guess it's okay that this gets mentioned every now and then about Hype and whatnot, but this is kind of "I'd like to write about this in the most obscure and broad way, not trying to step on anyone's toes" and has been happening since at least 1995:and nothing has changed, things got even worse afaik.

We've had countless examples with proof of corruption, misrepresentation, outright lies, blacklists and collusion in the industry over the past few months, how and why are they still not talking about any of it?

And why would anyone praise Kotaku for their non-involvement and what seems to be a move to produce even more clickbait and stupid articles when they have so many corpses lying around in their cellar:
He also outright dismisses complaints, especially his "Likewise, if you dont like SJW stuff, find a place that doesnt truck in social justice activism. Thats just the way it is. Some things will never change."

That's fucking retarded, there was no activism to speak of in the "gaming press" till about 5-7 years ago and most people were perfectly content, then they started and got many "Why is this here? This isn't about games" replies and a lot of people got more angry as they were called named and shamed for liking a game or certain things in their games.

Most people don't give a flying fuck about your world view or personal politics and you are going against the readers/customers express wishes, against the very market you are reporting on. 33 million bought GTA V and there weren't any complaints from the player base, 250k at the most bought "Gone Home" despite the gaming press trying their utmost to push it as hard as they could, how the fuck do they think this is going to continue forward if they try to pander and tailor their content to a minor niche audience and push their views across most publications (while colluding with one another) on to other people against their will? How do they not see the conflict and explosive mixture there?

Also, what?
Good ethics are, of course, not a perfect predictor of good journalism and therefore even the most righteous of games press might find themselves running what our publisher calls fake news."
I never understood this point of view. How is the hobby of video games, an industry making more money than the film industry, so full of idiot consumers?

I mean, you think The Avengers or Guardians of the Galaxy flopped, we'd be seeing fucking Ant-Man? No! Because, for some reason, folk that go to films aren't as stupid as gamers. GTA, Tomb Raider, CoD, etc., these franchises are not still around because they suck. There are no franchises that suck! It is working as intended!

So, why doesn't it work? I don't get it. A week before review or not, a game sucks, it should dive. Film studios often make films for the international market. They know "opening weekend" isn't their real cash cow. Why, in 2014, can the video game industry still be allowed to be so naive as to not be beholden to real, real world economics? Why are they "special snowflakes"?

They make more than film on a scam. Film tried scams. Back in the day. It did all kinds of shady shit. It still does today, too, just differently. But it learned it's reach. it learned how to monetize properly.

It grew up.

Everyone now knows Unity was released as suckballs. But the whole system banks on them still buying the next AC. And they will.

Fucking fuck, they will. It's their fault! They can't say no. Folk don't go to shitty films, but gamers throw their money at shit. They eat a bowl of shit, all the while saying it's shit, but they never think to put the bowl down! I have no sympathy for that.

Unity made fun of you. But by their next publication, all will be forgotten. The studio "learned its lesson".

Fool me twice, motherfucker, fool me twice.
Adam Sandler
  Folk don't go to shitty films, but gamers throw their money at shit. 

First of all, Transformers and TMNT contradict your entire point here :)

But unlike films, games have a saving grace: AC Unity issues can still be fixed post launch.
Daily caller article very well reasearched bit heavy on the antifeminist side

Is it wrong that I intentionally disregard, boycott or ignore any articles, videos or games made or done by people who take an anti-GG stance?
It's not that i'm doing it because I think of them as the enemy, but because I think they are compromised. whether it being friends with certain people that might make them bias (and not disclosing it) or just not doing enough research.

Extra Credits, The Idea Channel and even Errant Signal are channels I used to watch, but can no longer trust. For channels that claim to do intensive research, they decide to follow the narrative of the anti-GG to a tee.

So the question remains, am I being to harsh on them or is this ok in your perspective redditors?
Why isn't the GG seperate redesign of the Wiki article that Jimmy Wales offered due to Rylong &amp; co's bias and shady tactics getting more attention? This is a very important thing IMO. Fair warning, 8chan thread.
 
Jimmy Wales' tweet about the article:


The current GG written article: 

8chan thread on it:

Advice on writing neutrally:

Weighing In
Who I am... ish

I've been lurking for a while now, watching events develop listening in on TB and Sargon and many of the posts on this page due to an associate of mine who brought GG to my attention. I'm thinking the tactics GG is using (specifically the idea of friggin building the community we desire) are on the whole exactly what gaming needs. I also think understanding the position of the opponents to the GG movement is essential, first to learn of and expose bias and corruption but also to improve the GG platform as a whole.

What I've seen

The Gaming industry leaves much to be desired. Seriously, look at the ritual repetition of titles we get year in year out, each panned as the next big thing yet delivering nothing but the same (or in the case of AC:U, less) experience as the last. There's two problems with this picture: The dishonesty of advertising "Generic Sequel 5: Revolvulations" as the best game evar on behalf of big D development, and the lack of innovation and diversification these iterative productions present. (If you're seeing where I'm going with this, please don't spoil it for the rest of us because I'm pantsing the hell outa this post).

My point is this: GG is focused on eliminating the corruption. Moderates within the opposition want to improve the diversity of content within the games. We need to drive home the point that Developers and the development process needs to improve if this mess is ever going to be resolved. It's what both sides (theoretically) want.

What I've learned

Before learning about Gamergate I was under the impression that Anita Sarkeesian's videos were little more than weaponized TVTropes, not to be taken too seriously. I played into the media's hand on the Zoe Quinn situation as well (Curse you cracked.com and my insatiable love of dick jokes! Your article didn't give the full picture!). As such I posted a relatively misguided CMV a while back meant to spark conversation and better understand this situation. Not gonna link to that, because that's the old krymsonkyng and my view was changed.

Neither side's purported agenda is necessarily at odds (with the exception of the petty squabbling and posturing the media loves to highlight). We need to start working inclusion into the discussion in order to strengthen the movement and instigate true change within the industry. We want journalistic ethics reform as well as new and interesting and diverse game experiences.

What I want

I want another Mass Effect 2. In my mind, they hit all the right buttons with that bad boy. The characters were unique and interesting and the story was new and exciting and built entirely around getting diverse characters (sexually, racially, morally diverse) to work together to save the universe. To my recollection, the advertising campaigns highlighted a specific aspect of the game as a whole: Even if you "beat" the game, you were on a suicide mission with no guarantee that you or your crew would make it out alive. They drove that point home at every turn, and it was accurate (or at least more accurate than 3's campaign amirite?).

The good news is, I'm seeing the sort of inclusive discussions that will produce more ME2s all over the GG spread. Mr. T. Biscuit esq.'s interview with Rhianna Pratchett for example. That's the sort of dialogue we need to foster and promote.

Other topics I'd like to talk about

Is the gaming community what you would call a sub-culture or a loose conglomeration of gaming enthusiasts? It's a dead horse for most, but I'm still interested in the topic because... well it's 1:30 ish and I've got work in 5ish hours.

What positive examples of genuinely well crafted characters have you found in games? Any particularly sweet diverse ones you know that folks can bring up when talking to radical opposition?

Mechanics as metaphor: Examples, research, anything pertaining to this topic really. I need help. I started out this evening working on an academic paper and got wrapped up in Sargon's latest stream. Had to post something to pretend I'd shirked my homework/screwed up my sleep schedule for a good cause.

TL;DR What can we as a community do to present a more inclusive atmosphere? Let's start converting more folks than all the Age of Empires priests the world has ever known. Acknowledge the desires of both parties and redirect both discussions towards the chief offender: The industrial construct known as Video Game production. We want reform there, and in the media. They purportedly want reform there too. Let's hogtie these two monsters together and send them hurtling into the foe.

TL;DR:tl;dr You end a cult by changing the minds of its members using logic and evidence, while acknowledging the desires that led to the cults existence and learning from them. Keep up the good work GG. Some minds won't/can't be changed, and Jim Jones would say that's fine.
Charity Drive - Gaming for Good
Gaming For Good



So many of you will have heard of Bachir Boumaaza or as he's more commonly known 'Athene'. He and a group of friends host a site where gamers can donate to Save The Children. 

I've been supporting these guys for a while and as they've almost reached their goal for this year it would be cool for the people of #GamerGate to give them that final push before Christmas.

    Current donations stand at
        $20,287,578 of $20,500,000

If you want to get vocal about it then I would tweet at

 @reese015
 @AtheneLOL

and let them know that you're supporting Save the Children through GamingForGood with #GamerGate.

----------

edit: I'm also going to be dumping some CD Keys in this thread for anyone to grab
Key post no.1

First come, first served.

    Little Inferno STEAM
        B25LC-XRC69-3N5C4

    Unepic STEAM
        C492I-TLCQY-EDD23

    Metro: Last Light STEAM
        INQ6Z-3B22P-C2C88

    Trine STEAM
        VB8NW-K2BWI-HPLBR
Thanks for little inferno :)
Mary Sue runs with unverified Intel ad story

Intel wanted out of the controversy and now the SJWs are dragging them back in. I'm sure they'll appreciate being used to push the crazy agenda. 

Edit: I've refreshed gamasutra quite a bit and haven't seen the ads. I don't think we should give them any more views for now. They have a high earning Playstation ad they're most likely trying to drive traffic to. 
Vox says GG is "falling apart in their article "Super Mario Bros., Bayonetta 2, and nine other games that explain #GamerGate"

Serious Question: Does anyone really think after what we did to Gawker that we'll ever get a fair shake from Kotaku again?
If you've seen the latest from Jason Schreier, then you know it's just backhanded compliments and continual subtle, or not so-subtle, blame towards us for everything anyone on the internet has done in the last ~3 months.  Evidence?  No comprendo.

So when I see people claiming "they're trying" or "we should recognize that they've started changing" I have to stop and think what the fuck is going on in some people's heads?

They barred their journalist's ability to donate into a subject's Patreon, then rescinded that rule 2 weeks later, and now even encourage journalists to use company funds for it to get access.  They have a history of shitty "journalism" that ruins people's reputations.  When caught years later of reviewing friend's games (Ms Hernandez, Mr Grayson) what do they do?  Go back and write 1-2 lines of an update.

Seriously, fuck these people.  They're underhanded as fuck to begin with, and now we've pissed off the owner for hurting Gawker's money flow.

Am I wrong?  Does anyone actually think this clickbait trash blog will ever give us a fair shake?
Anti-GamerGate admits using WAM reports to ban Pro-GamerGate Twitter users

Showing media the Evidence of Misogyny, as recorded on a competing subreddit
So I tried not to make the title "clickbait-y" while also sounding interesting.  I've been lurking here for a long time, and I'm really glad that /r/KotakuInAction exists, and that its members seem to be so level headed about the issues.

Now, I decided that I ought to check out /r/gamergate, just to see some of the things they were posting over there, and discovered that the first link is to a page designed to showcase evidence of misogyny on the part of people who identify as "gamergaters" (or at least anti-/r/gamergate).  

My point is that I think many of these examples are clearly not misogynist in nature.  Many are critiques of Anita Sarkeesian, and of her methods of reporting and/or analyzing video games.  This means that /r/gamergate has literally created a list of examples where they cry "Misogyny!" at comments focused on ethics in game journalism/game analysis.

I don't know if anyone has already used this list, as the list itself is almost entirely from 2 weeks ago.  However, it does seem like this is the sort of thing that should be paraded if it isn't, because /r/gamergate is provably using accusations of misogyny to target comments about video game journalism.

Also, sorry if this is a repost, considering that the thread was from 2 weeks ago.

Edit: Figured out formatting, removed comment apologizing for formatting mistakes.  Also phrasing changes.

Edit 2: Realized this would be useful if you don't want to frequent /r/gamergate :
Their definition of misogyny changes with the argument. It's known as the motte and bailey technique if I remember right. 
I thought their definition of misogyny was pretty unwavering. 

ANY type of critique or anything less than 100% unbending support for anything female is unquestionably muh-soggy-knee.
That's as long as they are not pressed on the issue. When pressed it's:"don't you Support equality for women? You do, congratulations you are a feminist then."
that sub is a troll sub, you are better off not giving any attention to them :)
I figure they are mostly trolls, but at least some of the people involved on the sub really are involved in the issue, like the mods.  Especially since almost all the content on the specific post is from a mod, it seems to me like it fair to use as evidence of distortions of the message due to anti-gamergate.  
I see making a sub called /r/Gamergate is okay as long as it's full of 'their' narrative. 


And this is why I will never buy Reddit Gold.
It's a tiny, irrelevant subreddit, and that thread is frankly very hard to understand due to the OP just making up fake coversations as examples.

You're right that the quotes aren't misogynistic, but that OP doesn't represent the whole opposition (they were less hateful sounding).
An Email a day...
Have you sent yours today? Just a friendly reminder of the most recent BGotD target, Amazon. If you've a Prime subscription in particular, this is your ballpark.
an email a day

Keeps the game journo ads away? 
.. keeps Gawker at bay?
keeps the sponsors away.
Internalizes my misogynay?
Soggies my knees?

We have a lot of new people around lately.

Please heed this mans advice, the drama the twitter the wikipedia are all meaningless compared to the boycotts.

If you aren't sure about how or who to send emails to or anything about them please ask here.

Upvote this if you can please, get some visibility for the new names I've been seeing around lately.
This is what we need to remain focused on.

There are 20,000 of us here. If each of us wrote a letter a day or even a letter a week our opposition would be broke.

It doesn't matter who says what or what articles get written. It doesn't matter who wins on wikipedia or what people say on twitter. It doesn't matter if we never gain another supporter. If just the people here on KiA exercise their power as consumers we will get what we want eventually. 

That's the leg up we have up on the usual boycotters, we aren't an outside group. We are the audience. They need our money and the money of those trying to reach us. All we have to do is deprive them of that over the long-term.
... keeps the Mcintosh away.
Reminder: Why academics don't view Wikipedia as a credible source
Remember when Wikipedia closed ranks and made a hierarchy of approved editors that could edit Wikipedia pages?  

What's happening with GamerGate is exactly why that was a horrible idea.  The shadow being cast on the topic, repeatedly, by specific editors not only harms GamerGate, but it raises the question of how seriously we can take any of the other articles that Wikipedia hosts.

Of course, granted, this is a hot-button topic, but after witnessing, many times now, a blatant disregard for accurate preservation of the facts it really does reveal the core of how flawed Wikipedia's model is.

History used to be written by the victors but the internet was supposed to help change that.   Now it seems that history is, in fact, written by those with an axe to grind and high enough clearance to make it stick.

You had one job, Wikipedia:  Document the facts, both sides.  No matter what.

I am severely, severely disappoint and you will not be seeing another donation dollar from me until I see those responsible for flagrant disregard for the facts punished accordingly.
Geordie Tait reaches a new low

Geordie Tait has an alt called "White Male Privilege" on Twitter. Reported in 2012, most recent on GamerGate.

(X-post from /r/tumblrinaction) Gawker writer tries to compare outrage over a snooping hotel cleaner to GamerGate

We all know at this point how irreparably stupid Gawker is.

This is the site that once shamed a white woman for holding down a black kid after he yanked her iPhone out of her purse and tried to run with but failed because being a fatass and running don't exactly mix.

She didn't kick his ass, she didn't shoot him or use any racial epitaphs during the matter, she literally "hugged him down" until police showed up.

And the author was annihilating this woman and saying something at the end to the effect of "if some black kid steals your shit and you're a privileged white person, just let them go."

Sorry dude, progressive movie plot devices don't work in real life, someone swipes your shit, unless they have a weapon or can run faster than you, you get your shit back. 
just let them go

Is this real?
Enjoy.
The comments are pretty good though. Gawker's readers are becoming aware.


lol the same guy wrote both articles.
"Filed to: WHITE PEOPLE"

Mmmmmmhhhhhmmmm.

And we're the racists.
My skin's not white! Gonna buy a plane ticket to San Francisco and steal me some "journalist"'s iPhones!

Wish me luck KiA!
Pretty good? Better :) Almost all of the commenters are denouncing Anita and Schreier for stupidity.

Actually it's a good discussion and yes, I agree they becoming aware by each new day.

Sadly for us
Sounds like that attitude some sheltered rich kid would have.  Which isn't surprising, since as we're' finding out so many of these internet journalists are SF based trust fund baby hipsters.  

Why not let the poor oppressed kid have your phone?  You can just call your mom and dad and they'll send you 700 for a new one.  
We don't like the NSA snooping, so why make an exception for her?
"Gawker objects to the distribution of a video by writing an article calling attention to it"
The article says she's a woman and the author implies her snooping is ok that way.  Anyone else catch that?
I didn't catch only that. The part where he justifies this behavior because these workers are generally minorities, immigrants, prone to injuries and make little money is really disturbing. 

What kind of (ir)rational thought is that? Because they're not privileged, they can break rules?

Unsurprisingly, some of the people opposed to gamergate seem to have convinced themselves that they're oppressed and unprivileged and lo and behold, they seem to think it's ok to break the rules.

I don't care how privileged you are or not, societal rules are not a game and i'll call you out for invading other people's privacy if you're the hotel cleaning lady or the queen of England alike.
 What kind of (ir)rational thought is that? Because they're not privileged, they can break rules?
 
 
 
 Unsurprisingly, some of the people opposed to gamergate seem to have convinced themselves that they're oppressed and unprivileged and lo and behold, they seem to think it's ok to break the rules.
 
 
 
 I don't care how privileged you are or not, societal rules are not a game and i'll call you out for invading other people's privacy if you're the hotel cleaning lady or the queen of England alike.

It's not just some of them, it's in the actual cult handbooks you have to understand.

IF your target has patriarchy or privilege anything is justified against them.  That's the core flaw that keeps showing up again and again with these people.

Also if you're not doing things that make the patriarchy and privileged uncomfortable, you're not doing it right per their religious texts.

This is exactly what bothered me about this article.
By that logic when I worked in a kitchen I could rub my hands on people's food and rifle through bags that got left behind. Who cares, right? It's not like I'll spit in their food or take anything.
I think the major problem with this article isn't the GG comparison it's that he ENABLES A MAID SNOOPING THROUGH YOUR STUFF.
I shouldn't have read that. It was disturbingly stupid
This isn't the first time I've seen the "this is about ethics in X" or some variation, I assume this is what passes for humour amongst them. It's pretty sad but at least if you see it you know you can stop reading and miss nothing.
I've been seeing this for years. Treat something as a joke to delegitimize it. It also closes off criticism.
fuck i've been seeing this shit on sports sites.
The thing is, a couple of the things she did weren't wrong/unethical at all. Looking at PS3 games, fine, looking at the outside of the PS3/computer/tablet, fine. The line is crossed the instant she opens his luggage and attempts to access the chromebook. That is an invasion of privacy, even if the person would never have known. Looking at things that are in plain view is fine, inspecting the physical components of these things is fine. Getting into their luggage, trying to access their chromebook (which could potentially lock the owner) is wrong, and Gawker should really know the difference being experts in performing unethical behavior.
Yeah, there's definitely a line there. I mean, if you're using a maid service you give up some expectation of privacy - anything in plain view is fair game. Not sure how anyone can justify her trying to access his electronic devices though. I mean it's not the worst thing in the world, but that should definitely be grounds for disciplinary action.
Forgive them of their transgressions for they lack privilege, so sayeth the great privilege Goddess.
I'm weary of harping on about gender bias, but I can't help wondering if the article would have been different if it was a male housekeeper rifling through a womans underwear.
It has gotten to the point where Poe's Law is no longer applicable.  After a critical mass of dissonance, it's "just a joke" anyway. So now all this shit supersedes Poe's Law. It's a Schrodinger's Poe's Law: it's both a joke and not at the same time, depending on when and how you look at it.

And, it's also corrupted by some bizarro world reverse Poe's Law (henceforth known as Hubbard's Law), where the lot of 'em are handicapped by the circlejerk: "What, Xenu? Ah, shit, that sounds so legit!" They do not know what they are spewing is satire for the same reasons your fifth grader thinks sex is peeing in a woman because his "friend" told him. The biggest flaw of the internet is that fifth graders get a voice.

"Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity." -Robert J. Hanlon
Those are some gold medal winning mental gymnastics.
They want hits and writing the word gamergate gives it to them. that's pretty much it.

Their views are dipping 
Are they? The thing you posted suggests they're actually at a year-high.
I'm gonna go out on a limb and say it peaked from the Cat calling shit. 
I mean, at some point you have to see them for what they are: clickbait masters. They just leap at any opportunity to pander to their demographic, which, according to the Alexa link, is 80% female. That's how they make all that money. They aggregate all the objectionable stuff in the world and make it about women being victims ie. this article.
I meant dipping from where it peaked in october. I wasn't trying to imply they have less views overall.
I mean, it seems like there's a recurring trend of their traffic peaking every two weeks then dipping slightly. 
Never stop until Gawker and the like see the words "GAME OVER"
She tried to use his tablet?!  Looking at a game collection is one thing, trying to access someone's private email/financial/business records is another.

...It's okay though, 'men are gross (all of them)'

Ps. I do tip the fucking maid.
Just wait till someone tries to justify their breaking and entering with "it was for emotional/mental relief."

all men are gross

This quote, comrades. Completely necessary, and heavily bolsters professional image.
More motivation to keep sending the emails.
Am I missing something? Where in this article does the author talk about GamerGate? Or compare what's going on to GamerGate?
(This is about ethics in hotel cleaning)
The wide use of "woman" and "man" to try to make the woman a hero and the man a villain for expecting a maid to respect his privacy is fucking ridiculous
Jordan Sargent is a pathetic, bottom-feeding dipshit. I don't know how in a million years anyone could take anything this guy says seriously.
Is a male writer yet he writes that all men are gross... What the fuck?

Also I take issue with this guy saying how shitty of a job house cleaning is. There is far, far worse. I used to be a park maintenance worker where half our toilets were outhouses (which needed to be cleaned inside and out). I would much rather clean hotel rooms.
I totally buy that maids would get bored. Cleaning identical rooms over and over all day sounds like a special kind of hell. In the book Nickel and Dimed they would watch soap operas to make it bearable. They'd turn it on as they entered each room, clean with it in the background, and maybe sit on the bed and watch a couple minutes once they were done. You just miss a minute or so as you move between rooms. It seems infinitely more interesting than which PS3 games someone has.


Or just play some music on your phone. Put in headphones. Tada!
The real danger of that fake sexual assault video is #gamergate's reaction to it (lol? TW: Slate)

Humor If you want strong women in gaming, don't treat them like they're not strong in real life.

#GamerGate: Right &amp; Wrong | The Game Anthropologist - Opinion Piece

Motivational 8chan post about GamerGate

Twitter and "Non-Violent Threats" Suspension

What the hell does it mean?? This could be used to shutup GG people. So I did a Google search and came up to this article:
There was this quote: "menacingly raised a baseball bat was found to be non-violent." Note how muscular Mike is, is this the menacing non-violent threat?

Does this mean Twitter discriminates against SWOLE !?!?

Does anyone know what this means?
People are trying to abuse WAM to get people silenced.
Trying?  Are.
True, but they can't keep us silenced.

We will reset and respawn everytime.
My main account got suspended for "non violent threat". 

Anything that challenges a special snowflake's myopic worldview is a "threat".
They don't abuse WAM, WAM abuse their power.
And this is precisely why Twitter needs to come out and actively describe what is and is not a violation of its TOS.  Third party entities should not have the authority to jump the queue.

And most importantly, false reports which lead to suspensions in error need to have action taken against the harasser's account.
I would venture that it means threats of legal action. IANAL but I have heard advice not to idly threaten to sue someone unless you're ready to actually do it. 

I first heard of it on stock photo sites, when artists find their work used without payment, they need to be careful not to threaten legal action unless they really are about to sue. 
I bet its the aplogise or I will sue you episode.
 Does this mean Twitter discriminates against SWOLE !?!?

San Francisco, do you even lift?
Facts, definitely facts.  And Math. 
I am a writer for the GamerGate Dossier. AMA
Hi, I'm Raine. I'm one of the writers that contributed to the GamerGate Dossier project (thank you everyone that helped out and has shared it around!!). 

The purpose of this AMA is to try and answer any questions you have! I feel like the project may have flown under the radar for many people, so I thought it'd be nice to try and explain some things about it. I may not be able to answer every one of your questions, but I'll try my best!

Also, Nacho is another contributor to the project. He'll be helping me out (since my internet might cut out and it's pretty late where I am too).

EDIT: Okay, I'm out for a bit since I've been up for 24 hours. Continue to post your questions though, I promise I'll get to them as soon as I regain consciousness.
Will the dossier be sent in physical form to news outlets, and if so how many?

Also, to you and everyone who worked on it, well done.
We talked about it, but found it was rather expensive. A kind anon did offer to do it for us, but we decided to save it as a last option kind of thing in case we felt some outlets may have missed the email we sent.
I see, I only worry that it'll be far too easy for an email to be missed/ignored over a physical copy of the document.

I don't know how you organised yourselves in terms of reaching out to outlets, but what approach will you have if someone wants to get in contact with regards to the dossier's content?
That's why we wanted to keep it as a last resort sorta thing. We know it would probably get overlooked by some outlets. I guess we'll see though.

We actually have a few people the media can reach out to. We made contact with some prominent people and they volunteered for if the media needs a face to talk about GG. We were really lucky. I don't think I'll say who we got because it might make them a target unnecessarily.
I take it that if a press release is needed, it is already completed, right?
Firstly, i just want to thank you, it's obvious it required a lot of work. The final result is simply astonishing. The level of detail, professionalism, it's really great. 

How many people worked on it? And how long it took? To be honest, I didn't know anything about it before it was released.
We had quite a few people! The core team was relatively small (maybe about 10 that stuck around constantly - hard to tell when we're all from different timezones), but we had a lot of people popping in and out to give us advice, links, proofread and that. 

I think it took about a month, though maybe less. Was really easy to lose track of time though when working on it! :P
Do you need people to translate it in other language ?
Actually, that might be very helpful! We have an irc channel - #Dossier on Rizon if you're interested in chatting with the team.
I'll translate it into spanish!
Awesome!!! If you can join that channel, I'd appreciate it. 
Hey have you guys discussed with Liana K about the joke she claims to have made, she's in the dossier and seems pretty fucking pissed about it.
if we want to point out how a low meta critit score can make devs lose there job i think this is a better articlecan 
That was referenced already. :)
sorry about that, i must have mist it :S.. still think we need to remove Liana. I truly think that it is not need it to have that part in. and agine sorry for missing the linkes before.. been a long day 
No, we haven't. I'm not too sure what the issue is since it was referenced to in a rather neutral way and clarified it was a joke. Maybe I'm missing something here personally, but we haven't set her up as any kind of bad guy if that's what's going on here?
It sources Ralph Retort, who dredged it up and deliberately framed it as evidence of corruption on her part, due to an ongoing spat those two have. Personally I think the dossier frames it rather neutrally but it could be seen as suggesting "she says it's a joke but we don't believe her". Reframing it could really go a long way to settling the dispute.

edit ; On further examination, she made the joke while hosting an event she was expected to be telling jokes in. The dossier really does make it sound like she made a serious comment and then backpedaled when she got caught out. I realise there's nothing factually wrong with it, but the way it's currently written will definitely give people the wrong idea, and Liana K clearly feels it's a 'smear' to her reputation.

I realise the 'review changing' comment isn't a major event in the dossier, but since an involved party has taken exception to what is essentially a quote maliciously taken out of context, would you be agreeable to the idea of it at least getting reworded to make it less potentially maligning?
We were trying to say that if nothing else if speaks to a casual attitude towards that kinda thing and at this point making jokes about ethics in journalism is just as ill-advised as joking about a fire in a theatre. 

Also, that link was an accident. I've asked for it to be fixed so it references the video and not Ralph.
This is bad form. It is akin to taking commentary from the satirical monologue at a political correspondents event and claiming it as proof of something. While there is probably some underlying truth which is what made the joke funny to those in attendance claiming this as source for the press to review is very shaky. 

We need documented facts, like emails and statements with folks going on the record. Lets not do this smearing out of context BS.   
/u/RaineyJ Absolutely, if this dossier is going to be treated highly like this, we need to remove any "maybes" and "citation needed"s.
Personally I think the dossier frames it rather neutrally but it could be seen as suggesting "she says it's a joke but we don't believe her".

That's how it read to me as well, and I sent in an email to pr@ about it. (I'd have used the suggestion form but the JS keeps eating the message body; fix your JS.)
Why can't you make the point about scores and bonuses without sourcing a known liar and dragging one of our moderate voices through his personal attacks YET AGAIN?
Personally I feel it's a little off to treat someone preferentially based off their position as a "moderate". I've tried to talk to her about it though and reassured her that the Ralph link was a mistake and we meant to link the direct video.
A direct link would be a distinct improvement. Perhaps the actual text can also be adjusted so that the reader understands going into the video that it's in context of Metacritic's unhealthy influence on reviews?

Also, nobody gets preferential treatment from being smeared by shit-slinging yellow journalists. Even the opposition. I spoke against Ralph's hideous attempt to paint NeoGAF users as pedophiles, and I'm going to speak up against this. I find the inference that this is somehow preferential treatment to be disturbing.
The Ralph link was still a mistake, but we'll fix it asap. 

Otherwise, there's not really anything that wrong with the text. We do clarify it's a joke and all. =/ But I've asked the guys to go over it to see if we can improve tone anyway.
I think the main concern of hers is that the phrasing in that section makes it seem like she's one of the devs at fault for doing so and puts her in the same camp as the jurassic park developers in the next segment who were gaming the review system. I'm not sure how I would reword it, but in good faith I feel we should find a better way to phrase it that doesn't imply liana is one of them for making a joke. 

Whether or not she was serious, Kerzners statement exemplifies the lengths that reviewers may go to in order to protect developers from being laid off. Low scores may result in the loss of jobs or the closing of entire studios. Developers have attempted to mislead consumers as well in order to protect their studios.
I'll try and see what I can do. I'm not sure that's exactly her issue with it though since she seemed more fixated on the accidental Ralph thing when I talked to her. 
Here's what I got from her
That was just my interpretation of what she said though. For all I know it's just the ralphretort she had an issue with
That's definitely not the context we were aiming for... if anything I felt it was trying to show just how serious things are in the industry that it's such a well-known issue about devs not making bank that people joke about it.

Not sure I worded that right... it's past 5am here at the moment. 
i agree with you CFGX.
I think we need to leave her out of it. she have been good to GG, i dont think we shut drive her away. also i am not sure that Ralph Retort is the best source.
Indeed. There's a reason why Jonathan Swift is known for his satires and literature, rather than his newspaper career -- because like Ralph, he was nothing more than a rabid attack dog for whatever party he favoured at the time.
anyone can listen to her say it on youtubeand the dossier says she claims it was just a joke.
I don't think we should run with this. There's no substance to that particular 'scandal'
What is the primary purpose of the gamergate dossier?
A lot of GG'ers have been relying on unreliable sources of information like infographics or e-celebs. I wanted to be a part of writing this to provide some quality ammunition to gamergate.

When we say "its about ethics in game journalism" we will have a solid document to point to now.
To inform the public and the media about the various ethical concerns in video game journalism. 

In a way it's got a few uses though, but so long as people are able to learn from it, that's pretty good with me personally.
As a press kit, was this made as a whole or in part based on specific requests or invitation by actual press to present a case?

(I think that's a sentence)
A while back an anon on /gg/ made a thread claiming to be PR guy and suggested we get a press kit together. From that, a bunch of us came together to write it.

And sorry, my internet just went down so I'll have to use my phone, which kinda sucks.
Yes, in part Jesse Sinegal said Gamergate needed to speak with a voice to it's concerns. Then Milo said there needed to be someone you could pick up a phone a call. You can't call us but someone had to start making it easier for the press to cover our story.
I'm also a writer on the project.
Is there a specific media outlet you all had in mind when putting this together? For example, print, web radio? Different political leanings etc?

Or would you consider this a "one size fits all" approach?
When making the report, we just wanted facts. ONLY facts. Then we tried to craft something that explained the issues in detail. That seemed to cover whatever we wanted to do with it later.
Our strategy when it came to getting the story out to the press has been to target tech, political, and gaming outlets. But we also spent time on print, radio and then a few specific people (i.e. David Pakman) were singled out to hopefully cover the story
Nope, we didn't have anyone in mind. We just wanted to blanket as many outlets as possible. And yeah, we kinda took that approach - though I wasn't quite part of the mailing process so I can't tell you much on that front. Lots of the mailing stuff happened whenever I was asleep. :P
That is an impressive document. Damn, to everyone involved that is awesome work.
We were really surprised at how quickly we were able to fill 50 pages with info. We had so many links that it took some time just trying to filter them into the relevant sections.
Thank you for this excellent piece of work.

And what great timing! Right as Jimbo Wales is asking GG to make their own version of a wiki page. The dossier should prove invaluable to that effort.
Yep, incredibly great timing. I really hope it helps!
Can we please have a thunderclap for this? :D
We had a pretty big response from the community already that we had our own mini-thunderclap. But we may organise it later anyway.
Do you plan on updating it frequently, as more dirt is uncovered and more events happen? In other words, will there be live updates or a version 2.0?

Also, thanks a ton! It's fantastic.
It's too early to decide right now. So much stuff is coming out and there's also those FOIA to wait on as well. Although, there's a lot of stuff we didn't cover - either due to not enough evidence, redundancy, or our cut-off date hit. But you never know. :)
I like the idea of a 2.0. Live updates for grammar are fine
Can we realistically expect the major publications to act on it after they've published such factually incorrect/intellectually dishonest pieces already?
Personally, I have little to no expectations that any of the major publications who have been involved with this will say anything. They'll likely act dumb and pretend like nothing happened (worse, they may delete articles).

I think what we need are alternative journalists to take a bigger notice of the issues we've presented and use their power to dig deeper. Hopefully with their help we can get them to feel the pressure a bit more and fess up/apologise/implement policies.
What is your favourite edition of Sim City?
co-writer of the dossier here. IMO Simcity 4 was the best version and its awesome that the mod community for simcity4 is still active over 10 years since its release.
Oh gee... well, I only ever played the older versions. But I did have an unhealthy obsession with SimTower for quite a while as a kid. :P
I guess that counts, but I have my eye on you..
Good job with that! It looked like hard work (the large volume alone) so thanks for doing it!
I was a lot of hard work, and I'm sure there's a bit more work to go (there's so much more we could have covered really), but I'm super proud of what we were able to get out.
Where can we submit minor grammar edits to you guys? Should they just be emailed to pr@gamergate.me ?

Great work.
where did you get that email address?
The email address is on this page:
"Contact us"
I already told Nacho. He didn't realise, hahaha.
If you go onto our thread on /gg/ you'll find a link to the document that allows suggestions. I feel uncomfortable directly linking it here though.
Got it, thanks.
How did you determine what outlets to send it to?
 I just went by which outlets had the most viewers - biggest US news channels, biggest foreign,  then top political blogs, then top gaming websites, top tech blogs, and then topped it off with a huge bulk email list of journalists I collected from political advocacy groups ~from the curator of the list
Nacho may be able to answer that for you. He helped more on the mailing side of things.
Thanks. I'm still reading through the press kit, I'm sure many other are as well. Will you be checking back on this thread?
yes, someone will check this thread
Yep, both Nacho and I will. It's late where I am, but I'll try to keep answering questions for as long as possible.
Were things like the Brad Wardell issue considered for inclusion?
Yes. Some were against, others were for. In the end, we closed content addition and it was on the outside. It was simply too much to say we'd include EVERYTHING
Yes! However, our cut-off date was just before Milo's article came out and he got all those apologies. Before that, we couldn't quite work out how to fit it in with what we had at the time. I'm not sure that makes sense, but we definitely did talk about it a lot.

If we do a 2.0 it'll be worth covering - though Milo already did a pretty fantastic job!
Makes sense to me. Thanks for the answer, and for all your work on the document itself.
No problems. And thank you for reading it!
if the community finds more cases of corruption and we send it to you will you possibly make a dossier 1.5 with the updated cases?
Yeah, we may end up doing a 2.0. Bit early to call that now though.
I have no questions, just want to thank you and everyone who worked on it. You guys are all awesome!
Thank you very much! :D
This is a bit out of place, but you have a beautiful name. Dunno, somethin about it just clicks.


That aside thank you for staying based.
:P Thank you!
"Beautiful name for a beautiful girl." You've heard it a few times im sure miss'.

I will definitely check up on some articles when I have the time to, sadly Im deployed still overseas so I don't have all that much time to read up on content.
Haha, not that often really. :P

But whenever you have the time, that'd be appreciated! We linked a lot of really good stuff in there.
Oh, I caught myself wanting to search Moore's quote on Google, then noticed the Note 1 asterisk linking to the source. Good job on that. See, that became a habit when you had to trust but verify everything you read.
Yep, we wanted to make sure everything got referenced.
I read it last night, why doesn't the dossier reference the fact that Patricia Hernandez gave favorable reviews to her LOVER Christine Love rather than her being just a 'friend'?

It's not exactly solid there, but it should really be enough considering they lived together.
Just wanted to let you know you guys did an amazing job. I also want to let you know, I've forwarded this to Tal, IGN's publisher. I doubt he'll make a comment to me about it, but I thought it would be good to forward it to him directly and I hope he at least reads it and goes through all of it. 

I will definitely be using this dossier in many discussions. 
Awesome! Thanks, mate! You're a top bloke. :) Hopefully he gets back to you!
Has GamerGate changed your view of the mainsteam media and the left?
Personally? I'm to the right on most issues so the media has always been liberal to me. But looking at the gaming media you see even less of a regard for objectivity and truth.
I was a solid lefty, but after seeing how the far left and the  liberal media have been behaving in a vile manner with gaming, all that has been challenged.
How haven't you hit depression from seeing all the harassment,insults and other horrible things among the GG stuff? even when sticking to the facts you probably have seen A TON

edit:phrasing so i don't look like a psycho
We have been depressed... and angry, and confused. But we have the workto keep us focused on something
From the context I'm assuming you're a writer as well? (a bit confused seeing as you're not OP)
Have you read "Flat earth news"?
i haven't. What is it?
A book by Nick Davies that covers where many of the issues in modern journalism come from.
What is your personal opinion of Ms. Sarkeesian?
Mine? Oh geez... well, I'm not a fan of her work. I won't judge her as a person, but I do question why she frames certain things out of context in her series. I think it really hurts her case, if anything. If people go and play those games, most times they'd see it wasn't quite what she was talking about. 
ayyy lmao m8
I realise I'm late to the Tait/Pol thing, but farrk
I'm on my third large (very large) glass of port. I've watched about an hour.

This guy... he's off the McIntosh scale. McIntosh is just a blip on this man's scale.

I can't understand his reasoning. I get people thinking women are poorly represented in games. I do. I don't think it's as bad as many of them make out, but it could certainly be better.

But how the fuck does that justify advocating the horrific deaths of so many people who've done nothing to him?

How on earth do I even TRY to understand his mindset?

Here's a bit I wrote on one comment of his.

I would say "I need more booze for this shit", but I have a 20L keg of port that's still over half full.
Yeah Science! A Data Study on Harassment and #GamerGate

So we have a thread dedicated to Based Jennie's BasedGamer website, but many probably don't know about her funding campaign on indiegogo, found here.

Now that we've blown off steam about Intel...BasedGamer?
But seriously, what do we think about this concept?

Concerns about the concept? The pricetag? The execution?

I'd like to see more info on how the money is planned to be spent, personally, but I also chuckle at some of the "You only need 100 bucks and Weebly to make a website!" comments.

Guys, I think Bharaj is serious about wanting this to be a major site. That means truly professional and diverse design. A staff. Servers meant to handle a heavy load.

More than anything, I think constructive projects like this show how serious we are as a group wanting alternatives to the current trend in game reviews/news/consumption of information.
I think 50,000 dollars isn't an unreasonable price tag considering the number of people it sounds like she's planning to hire to get it started. We should probably ask where the prices came from though, like if she has a consultant working on it or what.
Yeah, it absolutely needs more transparency, but there's no way I'm dissing it yet.
I'm all for it, I think the concept is good, but I would need info on what assets would be needed and at least an outline of a business plan before I throw my money in. She's looking for investors into a project, and no matter how much I may like the concept, or what group she is a part of, I'm going to hold her to the same standard that I would hold anyone else to. Show me the plan.
need a lot more details on the project before I decide on it.
Requires more information.  What is the algorithm to be used?  Are there preventative measures for rating raids from trolls?  Good intentions, but until we see more on this, best to keep an eye on the project instead of jumping in.
I guess I'm worried it'll turn into another metacritic.

Not particularly interested in donating.
Honestly?  I think it's a reactionary project set up in haste with little planning and I don't believe Jennie Bharaj is the one who should do it (I may be wrong about her, and I hope I am).

  My thoughts about how the site will work is that I don't like it.  I rely heavily on numerical scores to comb through decades worth of old games to find what I missed out on.  A Rotten Tomatoes style review would be almost useless.  We shouldn't be taking the scores out of reviews, we should be taking reliance on scores out of the market.

I want a website that focuses on games I can play, and not shit that's not out for months or even years.  I want a fair scoring system that uses the full scale and not just 8s-9s-and 10s.  I want a review site that isn't scared to give Destiny a 5.  I want more focus on middle-ground games that don't come from EA or Ubisoft.  

I just want some genuine people writing about games because they love them and know the good shit from the bad.  The industry is in such a shitty fucking place right now all around.  For instance I loaded up Realms of Arkana 3 last night and was blown the fuck away by what I saw.  I couldn't believe those old games are far and away so much more complex and experimental than the flashy bullshit we have now.  But now that games are mainstream quality has dropped like a stone as one mildly interactive flashy hollywood movie-game is all we have to choose from.  

Even the Indies have failed us.  Delivering one retro-pixelart with 1 quirky mechanic and some emotional music piece of shit after another.  I thought Indies were supposed to free us and take chances and all the other stuff that comes with innovation.  I want that.  I honestly believe once we clear out the journalists and retake our hobby we can hold publishers feet to the fire and get that back.
I mean, I'm hesitantly optimistic. Remember that RT doesn't just average out raw review scores; it determines 'how positive' or 'how negative' game reviews are and aggregates the positive or negative impressions.

I think it would help the site to have a more fleshed out user review system, where some kind of score system could help give 'weight' to user reviews based on consistent quality contributions.
POST THE NAMES OF SUSPENDED TWITTER ACCOUNTS HERE
This thread is for keeping track of GG accounts that have been suspended by Twitter. Not every GGer is as prominent as Milo, so we need to keep an eye out for anyone who drops off.

Once the account name is posted, tweet it to @Twitter and @Support using the hashtag #FreeSenpai.  
Why are you yelling?
MAYBE HE DRANK TOO MUCH COFFEE? I KNOW I DID!
How does one yell with text?
LIKE SO! 
AAAAAAAAAAAH! MY EARS! MAKE IT STOP! SUCH LOUD TEXT!
SUFFER
@RogueStarGamez

@AnAnonIsFineToo

These are suspended right now. It is confired it was WAM. Ghazi morons are filling false reports.



previously me @Dwavenhobble

Picture for you
This was before WAM.

Anyone know how they're filing these reports with WAM too as I think we might be able to file reports with them for harassment too. 
@Mykeru and @jordanowen42 still remain suspended from the first round of WAM reports.

@thunderf00t, @Nero and @RogueStarGamez were lifted, but it looks like the same WAM abusers reported RogueStar again.
Probably missing something...why #freesenpai?
@anAnonisfinetoo was suspend his name had senpai in it

here he is
Anti Censorship guy doing a Reddit ama.

Fallacies in Media regarding GG?
Hello everyone, I've been following GamerGate for a while, and it seems to be a huge effort to fight the press, while they may make statements that completely fail to portray the movement as a whole.

It is because of this that I immediately thought of GG when a Critical Thinking class asked me to find examples of fallacies in news articles.

While it wouldn't take me long to find a couple of generalizations and Strawmen littered around recent articles, I would like to know: which particular incidents did you think were the most pungent and obvious?

Edit: related thread.
Chrome Extension - archive.today on right click
I made a chrome extension that lets you either archive a link or access its archived link. For instance someone posts a link to kotaku's new article about how we are all pedophiles or something and you wanna see it, Just right click and click "ArchiveToday Link" That's it.

I currently don't have enough spendable money in the bank to pay for dev stuff on the Chrome Extension store so for now you gotta use the developer tools to install.

Install instructions.

1. go to chromes extension manager and turn on developer mode.
2. download the source here all you need is the contents of the src directory.
3. put the folder with the two(2) source files into someplace safe, as if you delete them the addon wont work anymore.
4. from the extensions page click "Load unpacked extension"
5. and then just select the folder you saved the files in from the window that open and your good.
5. ...
6. profit

When I get payed next ill be able to spend the money on the App store for a dev account then you will no longer need to use this work around.
So about 2 weeks.

If you have any suggestions, issues, or ideas to extend let me know and ill see what I can do.
Geordie Tait: "I'm the one who made the death threats - toward #GamerGate"

It's because antis have no need to deflect.

What in God's fuck does this man's brain look like
That boy ain't right.
"If you weren't my son I'd hug you."
I don't know you! That's my purse!
"Whose kids are these?" - Matthew Mcconaughy, Lincoln advertizement
Take a child and raise it in an environment in which nothing is ever the childs fault. It shits on the rug? Must've been a bad snack. It yanks the cats tail and gets a kitty-kat-claw-slap out of it? Cat is bad, not child. 

Continue that trend through to adulthood. Boom, SJW ranting fuckwit.
Just wait until Comon Core becomes more normalized. I weep for the future.
Care to explain how federally standardising education has anything to do with anything here?
You really think there can be a single "standard" for 330 million people spread across 4 million square miles?
At the moment, most states have their own tests that match up with their standards. The DOE's work with private companies to create and analyze these test.

Currently, there is a push to encapsulate as many states as possible into one test. It has I think 13 states. 

So yeah, there certainly could be. It totally depends on the states though.
I think you missed the point of my question. Yes, some asshole in Washington DC can craft a set of standards and force everyone to use them. But is this a good idea? How can it possibly be? How can he possibly assess the needs of all of these children?
Honestly, after being on the back end of it, I think it is good. But people will not like it either way.

I am working on a project now that went to performance based. There are the same amount of people bitching, if not more, about the style of test there.


 People will not like it either way.

Well yes, that's the point. There are 330 million people. Maybe the standards should be tailored to the individuals instead of expecting a national set of standards to apply to everyone?
Setting up certain standards that people need to meet, I think, is a good idea. The implementation is what matters. Considering standards can bend different depending on the states helps.

It really matters on your personal opinion.
The corruption in gaming journalism isn't just obvious. It's quantifiable.

Playing action video games can boost learning, study finds -- ScienceDaily

Sargon is having another call-in stream right now! A Conversation with #GamerGate (13/11/2014)

Currently trying to make a #GamerGate youtube playlist.
Currently I am making a #GamerGate youtube playlist, and I've gotten over a dozen videos in the playlist. I tried tweeting about it and keep it on the DL, but that resulted in a string of multiple tweets. I just wanted to ask around and get peoples' thoughts on videos I should add, or remove since I'm just ONE pro-GamerGate person. I wasn't wanting to include ALL of Sargon's videos so I didn't include any(I know, but I wanted to let people pick one or two of his if any). Also, if you feel that I should rearrange them somehow, speak up please.
Edit: Also, which David Pakman interviews should I include?
Looking for actual Evidence of possible Twitter Ban Abuse
As the title implies, I'm currently collecting whatever I can find into a list, but I know there is likely much more than what I've found. 

I need whatever archive links you guys can share where you have some form of evidence that false/spam/etc bans on #GamerGate members were done. Also any potential abuse of WAM's reporting tool would be welcome as well. I've already found the ExBungieDev and saw two of srhbutts posts about using WAM, but I'd like more evidence if possible for a stronger case when I go to Twitter/WAM about it. Thanks in advance for any assistance :)

Also first time reddit user here, so I apologize if I've goofed up anything =P
Without breaking into WAM's systems, chances are you won't find anything that could really be considered solid evidence. All you'll find is hearsay, self-admitted or otherwise, on social networks and reddit, and as you mentioned, it's not really strong enough to be usable.

Note that I am not suggesting breaking into their systems; just saying that you're not likely to find anything to suggest that SJWs and aGGros are actually using WAM to shut folks down without access to WAM -- and for privacy reasons alone they're not very likely to help you collect such evidence.
Yeah I understand, if people can link me things similar to what I mentioned though, even if it is second hand or whatever, that might give me a bit more to work with or for them to look into :)

Also agree on the no1 break into anything bit! Nothing illegal here please lol.
The evidence would probably be people who are anti not being banned for the terrible things they have said.
You don't have to prove or disprove anything. You can state the known facts. Shortly after announcement of this WAM fasttrack, a couple anti's said on twitter, that they reported Milo via WAM form. Whether it is true or not, is not your concern and beyond anyone's reach unless Twitter discloses it, but the fact remains that they have said it. 
These are only thing you need to and can report. People can make up their own minds.
Btw, check this out:

3rd comment from Samuel Stingman (archive.today cannot see it), same guy who tweeted Milo's ban says:

 "Contact me at ...at gmail.com if you have information on private communications between prominent members of Gamergate. Gawker Media will compensate you."

Here you'll find more WAM mentions of YTers jordanowen42, MykeruMedia

Apparently he "was" a moderator in
/r/downvotetransphobia 
/r/freeCanadaPolitics
/r/starwars

Here he says:
 Hi. I work for LucasArts Entertainment Company, LLC. This video contains copyrighted sound effects composed for the Star Wars franchise. This is the intellectual property of LucasArts and LucasFilm. Please remove this video before I have LucasArts and LucasFilm file a DMCA against your account. DMCA strikes are quite serious, so we prefer to give users a chance to take the video down before we file the DMCA with Google Support. If you want to keep this video of your bird on YouTube, contact us through www.lucasfilm.com or www.lucasarts.com and ask for permission to upload this again. If you do get approval, be sure to credit LucasArts, LucasFilm, and Ben Burtt, the original sound engineer, for this sound effect. Thanks.
KoP Streaming with Geordie Tait Now.
Fairly civil at the moment, Socks just left, Sargon came on.

EDIT: Tait has left, post Tait discussion still happening.

EDIT: Stream over. Video here
Emotionally unstable SJW doxxes a programmer two years ago for saying "hot girl"

Competitor to Gamasutra?
I was thinking, long term, we want Gamasutra to burn. In someways, being dev oriented, it's a more dangerous ideological stronghold then any of the others. 

Gawker is the worst pulp, and that makes them an easy target. We have alternatives to Polygon going up now, and that's also true for many of the other magazines, but being a bit of an outsider, do we have anything going up that's geared specifically to draw clicks away from Gamasutra? 

In the end, the fight for equal representation in games is going to be a battle for the hearts and minds of developers. 

Preventing the non-representational radical left from pretending to the developers that they are the 'new normal' is vital. Otherwise developers who want to serve their audience will produce SOCJUS crap and be baffled as to why it's unpopular, or worse, it becomes propaganda for Toxic Socialists. 

You know all that. My question to all of you is this, How big is Gamasutra to the developer community, and do we have enough/any devolopers specific alternatives? 

IF not, what are we doing about it?
Who to contact at Intel?
Who should we contact at Intel? We need to at least tell them that they are wading back into a culture war, perhaps unwittingly. Also, that if you're working on a new build that you're considering AMD.
Involved Wikipedia editor Tarc complicit in off-wiki cooperation with subjects of Gamergate controversy.
One of the main PoV pushing editors, Tarc, isn't as neutral or objective as he claims to be.

I like how he brushes off editors who disagree with the neutrality of the article by blanket labeling them as coordinated agents who collude outside Wikipedia.

Yet he has tweeted to at least two LWs to assure them that he's got articles related to Gamergate or their bios lock-downed on their behalf.

Feeling sympathy for those who have been negatively affect by the controversy is fine, but if it motivates you to edit articles on the subject then calling yourself unbiased or objective seems disingenuous.


Archive:




Are any GG wiki editors reading this? The faux GG article needs some serious work. If we don't make it 100% neutral, Jimbo is going to dismiss the entire thing and it will all be for nothing. Remember that the more you force our perspective, the more invalid it will become. The ideal article will NOT tell our full side of the story simply because we don't have enough legitimate sources for them all, this is a fact. There are going to be a lot of aspects that will inevitably slip through the cracks and won't appear in the final product. But this is ok, because eventually the story will get out in the mainstream and we'll have our sources then.

Here is a link for reference

You are kidding yourself if you think they will ever take that page seriously. It's been made to shut people up.
One battle at a time. If we create a really good neutral article and they dismiss it, we'll deal with that then. Otherwise you're like kotaku saying "we won't change our ethics, the people asking for it are doing so in bad faith."

If they do act as you described, then we'll have more proof of their activities.

Could be, but this will make excellent story anyways. Their bias is so well documented. In the best case scenario Wiki will redesign their bureaucracy so that political and ideological hit pieces are much harder to make.
The ones interested in true neutrality are battling on wikipedia. I'm too biased to help in the faux gg article. We need pro and anti working together to make it work imho. 

Like for instance is it acceptable to include allegedly when discussing people who received death threat tweets saying gamergate? Do we take peoples statements as absolute fact? If their claims are debunked how is that presented in the article, can it even be if there's not a source for it? That's why I find it hard to add to the article
(W)(W); Creature - Human Knight; First strike, Protection from Black; 2/2.
Man, I used to love those guys in M:TG too, white weenie decks were so much fun.

Remember when everything wasn't polluted with this bullshit?
they even invaded MTG to some degree tho.
They had to make a huge post explaining why the language on MTG cards is not gendered.

Fuck this shit.
Seriously? Got a link? That's crazy if they had to do that...
oh man i hate to be the "hurr durr i dont want to enact the labour" guy but i honestly have no idea where it is. It was on one blog of a guy from wizards.
Check a few links down; this guy and Ryulong have never made their bias anything other than clear.
"I'm totally gonna take your side and remain neutral"

Stay strong SJW soldier keeping the "bullshit" out.
He also just waded in to a conversation with David Aurbach, who was complaining to Wales that he was being grossly misrepresented in the GG wiki.  
Classic propaganda technique: accuse your enemy of what you yourself are doing.
Do you have an archive of the message?

Edit: Thank you for the update OP.
Sorry, freshly graduated from lurker status so I don't know how to reddit or archive.
Just go to archive.today, paste the URL, and let it do its thang.
Mind if I add that to the topic?
not at all :)
Talkpage this.
Yeah, we'll be shouted down.

If you want to force your opinion on me, come do it to my face, you fucking pussy.
What is it such an uphill battle for objective interpretation/explanation of events, or at least an open admission of connections/bias?
There is his full timeline right now.

This is absolute fucking bullshit.
Is there verification that this is the same person? If so, /u/sugerfreek will probably be interested in this. If not, there's enough damning evidence of bias on the talk page itself. But direct contact with a subject discussed in the article, telling them he has their back, is on another level imo.
Let me guess, pro GG wikipedians aren't involved with GG at all offsite? 

GG does this all the time. You guys even organise and lobby for the GG article to be changed. /r/kotakuinaction would cry bloody murder if wikipedia decided to ban people involved in GG from editing anything related to GG.
You mean like ryulong has tried no less then 3 times?  Or the fact that Ryulong and North have over 40% of the edits on the article desperately pushing a narrative.  Just curious, most of us have given up on wikipedia as hopelessly biased.
Let me guess, pro GG wikipedians aren't involved with GG at all offsite?

You can't conflate that with being in sympathetic contact with some of the principals of a controversial article that you're supposed to be writing in an impartial encyclopedic voice.
Geordie Tait: Narcissist and Hypocrite

Could we just avoid and not talk about Literally Hitler.
Literally Tait
TL:DR Someone needs to get laid.
Industry Sickness Reveals Itself Thanks to Geordie Tait (non-archive)

Aerannis got funded today.
First off don't go claiming that we played a big part in its funding, because honestly some of us only heard about it a week ago.

Personally, I think that the game has got an interesting setting and plot to it. While there are many games in the past set in a dsytopian world, I haven't seen this variation before; as such I hope for its success.

Anyway, if you think it is interesting I hope you would spread the word.
Dan Hsu's 2005 piece titled Editorial Integrity

Any board gaming GG supporters?
I am a big fan of board games as well as PC games.

I'm choosing to boycott Will Wheaton's Tabletop show which has just started a new season, because of his attacks on gamergate and dismissive and condescending attitude.

I've heard that the SF cult has a strong hold on board gaming: does anyone have information on this (aside from Will who is obviously a big player)?

Do you think it would be a good idea to reach out to our board gaming cousins?
The board gaming guys or a lot of them are right on our side and helping us out even though no one has been there to help them.

I have nothing but thanks for those guys.

Take a look at shut up and sit down. My favorite board game site is firmly anti gg. SJWs are everywhere. Hopefully after the gg victory parade we can do something about other areas under siege.  
Yeah, Shut Up and Sit Down, home of Matt "Weaponized Minorities" Lees and with occasional podcast guest Leigh "Megaphone" Alexander.
Yeah, I play board games with a group of friends every Thursday night.  I'm not sure how I feel about Table Top.  While I personally plan on boycotting it, it also has done wonders for getting younger people into physical board games.  I'm probably still going to recommend people watch it for that reason, even though I strongly disagree with Wheaton's views.  
  
Edit: I should add that when I say it's done wonders, I mean some of those friends I play with started playing board games again because of the show.
I've got nothing to add to the conversation, but just want to put my hand up as a fan of agricola and puerto rico :)
Yep, board and table top RPGs.  I dislike Wheaton immensely.  He has always been a condescending asshole, or, to use his verbiage, a dick.  In the TTRPG community, we recently had a SJW onslaught over who WotC reached out to for consulting on 5th edition.  Holy shit.  The current trend of indie games is part of this Social Justice trend.  I guess what I am saying is that the battles are already being fought, the problem for them is that you simply cannot control TTRPGs like you can the CRPG industry.
I don't get a chance to play a lot, but I have a problem with buying too many board games. I also won't be watching Tabletop, not really as a boycott I just don't think I can enjoy it seeing Wheaton every episode. Barring any differences on opinion, he's just got an unlikable personality to me.

In the previous Medium, we looked at McIntosh and Sarkeesians statements and established that the Tropes vs Women series is intended to be educational and used in academic settings as informative pieces of work. The pair have built academic curricula around their work as assert that it is used in multiple universities.

We also looked at some definitions of academic and intellectual dishonesty. We looked at the history of feminism, a brief history of Feminist Frequency in relation to the Tropes series, and established academic thoughts and arguments concerning the nature of tropes, narrative, and storytelling.

In this Medium, we will look at the very first video in the Tropes series, Damsels in Distress pt. 1. We will see how McIntosh and Sarkeesian present concepts without citation, incorrectly assert concepts, mislabel concepts, and completely misunderstand concepts. We will also look at ways that McIntosh and Sarkeesian may have massaged their data to get the desired outcome, define bias in research, and utilize some logic to examine some of the claims.

This is not to be construed as a personal attack on McIntosh or Sarkeesian. This is intended to be a criticism of critics and call for better work from two people who have the propensity to do better. This is also not exhaustive or wholly representative of the criticism of this video as a whole. Its silly that I have to put this, but this Medium is not meant to be exhaustive and complete of all potentialities, views, and research bodies.

Please note that I will attempt to respond to notes, but the last piece received 10,000 views in 24 hours. Its hard to answer everyone, but I will try as soon as possible. All notes are invisible.

Finally, yes, I have received some insults, dismissals, and saucy language due to my first piece.

Of primary note in the very first part is that McIntosh and Sarkeesian do not cite any sources for any of the material presented in the video. Under common knowledge exceptions to citation, one should assume that their reader does not have knowledge of something. The color of the sky may be common knowledge (it appears blue in the day) the reason the sky appears blue (scattering of blue light in daytime) is not. The first would not need sourcing. The second would.

The following statements lack sourcing that is necessary: history of damsel in distress, definitions of etymological terms, Damsels in the Middle Age, Damsels in the Classical Age, Damsels in the 20th century, information on subject/object dichotomy, the assertion of women being a goal, misconceptions of the trope, the assertion that damsels are an object at all, how the trope causes injury, the hero myth, video games as influential to the cultural and social ecosystem, sexist attitudes are rampant assertion, a large percentage of people still think women need to be sheltered/protected/naturally weak, the belief that women are naturally weaker and viewed negatively, that damsel tropes are a result of popular culture, that tropes normalize attitudes, that damsel in distress is a widely used trope.

In the description of this first video, McIntosh and Sarkeesian write they will look at female game characters from a systemic, big picture perspective. While systems are large and problems are persistent throughout the system, systems are also cybernetic in nature. This means the systems are quite complex, reflexive, growing, evolving, changing, and mutual.

One drawback of this perspective, however, is that its often difficult to find an origin point of problem due to feedback. For example, consider a computer. Lets say a small part short-circuits. This causes a surge of electricity that damages your memory and hard drive. This causes a smoking that then damages cables which causes your power supply to fail and damage which then causes another small part to fail and break causing your computer to fail. You now have to examine each part and its relationship to other parts, how the parts failed, in what order, and discern the nature of that failure to track down the problem.

However, if you eliminate or remove a part of the system, the system fails as a whole. The computer no longer functions because it lacks that small part.

So while systemic views are valuable, we must also keep in mind that removal of a systemic flaw requires a replacement of a systemic patch or fix. Removal of the perceived problem of sexism cannot be replaced simply by lack of sexism. It must be replaced by a behavior. You cannot remove a behavior without a substitute behavior or else a system collapses.

Injury, Harm, and Destruction
McIntosh and Sarkessian state that, remember that it is both possible (and even necessary) to simultaneously enjoy media while also being critical of its more problematic or pernicious aspects.

Let us now return to one of our terms of engagement:

Pernicious means something that has a physically harmful effect in a gradual or insidious way, is highly injurious, deadly or fatal, or causing great harm and destruction.

There is no evidence that I can discern of causality between sexist games and people being highly injured, killed, or being caused great harm and destruction. The most lobbied claim, that video games cause body dysmorphia or image problems, is not entirely proven. In fact, the research on the effects of Barbie on young girls is mixed and often ridiculous. Theres no research that states, without hesitation, that media or representations cause body dysmorphia or long-term body dissatisfaction. Parents, however, are known to be one of the strongest influences in dissatisfaction and esteem.

Body dysmorphia disorder, a psychiatric diagnosis, also is known to affect men and women for many reasons, one of the highest associated risk factors being a biological predisposition and personality characteristics. There are other forms of dysmorphia that are not recognized likely due to the population they effect most. Notice how media is not one of those highest associated factors? While personality can be derived from media, it can also be derived from family and social interactions that take up an amount of the day.

It may be that the pair do not fully understand the word pernicious and believe it is just a synonym for problematic, but this does not seem the case. Better words include dubious, questionable, uncertain, or disputable. None of which mean causing of harm. Theres no indication that media representations that are not appreciated are pernicious or cause serious injury or bodily harm. Theres no indication that tropes, no matter how selective, cause serious injury or bodily harm.

Final evidence that these representations are not the problem: treatment. Treatment of body dysmorphia tends to involve cognitive behavioral therapy which examines associated thoughts with behaviors and attempts to sever the thoughts. In my experience, most people who see me with dysmorphia do not state they have the disorder because of a TV show. They typically tell me their parents were critical or they were naturally high strung.

Those who assert that the media is the culprit here are simply ignorant of research in the very field that diagnoses the disorder.

We also need to take this moment to briefly touch on the use of gendered stereotypes. Gamers, as covered in the linked medium with its own resources and in the previous piece, are often subjected to stereotypes of being violent, angry, or filled with rage. There is no research to indicate that gamers are, on a whole, more violent than any other group. Research does indicate that playing certain games may change attitudes immediately after playing the game, but theres no research this is long-term and the research that finds a result is under heavy scrutiny.

There is correlational research and a multitude of theoretical explanations for the effects of media:

cultivation theorymedia cultivates, shapes, or helps to spring forth beliefs and perspectives.
social learning theorymedia teaches us behaviors are acceptable and prime us for behaviors via modeling and repetition.
social-developmental modelswe develop patterns of behaviors through relationships with media.
desensitizationmedia makes violence more acceptable and less shocking as we view it more frequently.
Models of persuasionattractiveness, appeal, and repetition join to change attitudes and behaviors.
Impersonal impact and third-person effectWe act on the assumption we will not be affected by media.
None of which have solid causal research to conclude that media causes a behavioral outcome as covered above. The most that research can conclude is that media has a short-term effect on behavior. Factorial analysis shows that effect, as covered previously, is small in relation to exposure to all violent media8%.

Bias in Research
In research, we often are concerned with the nature of the researcher. Postmodernist concerns of science put forth that scientific objectivity is difficult if not possible as data do not self-interpret. They are filtered through the researchers lens, often are biased by the researchers own perceptions, and reaches truths that serve the assumptions of the researcher.

Psychology and cognitive science shares this concern through what is called confirmation bias. This bias dictates that a researcher confirms ones hypothesis by actively seeking out data that will support ones conclusions. As researchers are invested in their research, they are influenced by personal bias. Quite interestingly, one way to address bias-making is through playing video games regularly.

On the research-side, there is often a concern with a bias that is known as publication bias. This can have a few different prongs. One prong concerning analyzing a large amount of research that has already been done. When doing research on information that is readily available, the outcome may differ from the complete range of research that is available (a drug is found dangerous when it is not) and publication has consequences due to finding a negative impact. Another prong, now older, is that publications like to put forth research that finds a result even if that result is not entire in scope.

So when doing research, a researcher must be mindful of their bias in their theoretical approach, the data they select, how they interpret the data, and if they are willfully misrepresenting research to impact or selecting points of publication that will be published readily.

McIntosh and Sarkeesian readily ignore all of these concerns. They only select data points from media they feel fit the point (Star Fox, Race for Life, The Gorilla Mystery, Popeye, King Kong, Donkey Kong, Sheriff, the Mario series, the Zelda series, Vigilante, Sonic, Dragons Lair, and the Double Dragon series). The pair tailor the clips to their point and divorce the context based upon confirmation and publication bias.

While one must certainly tailor their research to some degree (you cannot look at every game in existence), representing only video games or media that establish the point is poor research. Video games which do not represent the Damsel trope are not represented. Some of those include the Addams Family, Arkistas Ring, Battletoads, Bionic Commando, Captain Planet, Donkey Kong 3, Donkey Kong, Jr., Defenders of Dynatron City, Dragon Warrior 2 and 4, Faria, Fire n Ice, Friday the 13th, Gauntlet, Ghost Lion, Legacy of Wizard, Legendary Wings, Little Mermaid, Maniac Mansion, Metroid, Ms. Pacman, Ninja Gaiden, Paperboy 2, Rescue Rangers, X-Men, and any game that has a woman saving a man or another woman, or any game that has a woman or man doing anything BUT saving a woman or man.

Preliminary research that I am conducting, and has gone through the history of console gaming until the Sega Master System, shows that of 1,800 examined games, only 5% or roughly 96 have the Damsel in Distress trope.

McIntosh and Sarkeesian were able to find 24 games to justify the statement that the Damsel trope is pernicious and problematic as a sign of sexism in gaming.

McIntosh also state there are literally hundreds of examples. The Nintendo Entertainment System had 822 games released between 1985 and 1995. The Super Nintendo Entertainment system, active between 1991 and 1999, had 784 games available.

On two systems alone, there were over 1,600 games released. McIntosh and Sarkeesian do not source their claim for hundreds. In fact, McIntosh and Sarkeesian state that they purchased well over 300 games in one update, but they have hundreds of examples meaning that 200300 of their games had these cliches. Even if one assumes that every game, of which only modern generation games were pictured, had this problem, this is only 12% to 18% of games released between 1985 and 1999.

My examination using any female characters every captured for any reason only returned 5% of games. If we are kind, 18% of the games have the trope. If we use the criteria put forth by McIntosh and Sarkeesian, up to the NES, only 5% do.

Are McIntosh and Sarkeesian really saying that theres a problem in gaming with objectification of women based on 518% of games?

It should also be noted that McIntosh and Sarkeesian stated that, it would be nearly impossible to mention them all. No, it would not as the number of games released throughout the 80s and 90s is finite. Youd just have to look through all of the plots and see if there were common elements. In short, youd have to do a lot of research. Research I am doing and has taken a long time.

Also note that on this page are Donkey Kong, Zelda, Mario, Star Fox Adventures, Kings Quest, Double Dragon, Sonic the Hedgehog, and others. It would almost appear that McIntosh and Sarkeesian got a lot of examples from the TV Tropes page. Well never know, however, as they did not provide sources for their materials and information.

I was able to find 25 just on the Nintendo Entertainment System alone that broke convention by having men rescuing men, women rescuing men, women rescuing women, men and women fighting together, women helping men, and women being selectable as main characters.

This must mean that there are many narrative elements that were used in NES story telling that reinforced a multitude of social norms and cultural values. Those that McIntosh and Sarkeesian label damsel in distress are labeled The Quest by Booker and recovery of a loved one by Polti (see previous piece)

Subject-Object Dichotomy

One of the key arguments presented by McIntosh and Sarkeesian is something called the subject-object dichotomy. However, the pair never quite conceptualize this issue. Instead, they leave the reader to assume that it is bad.

The nature of objects and subjects has roots in two schools of philosophy. Ontology deals with the questions concerning what can exist and what does exist, how existence can be grouped, and how it can be divided. It can also be thought of as the conceptualization of existence, objects, and their ties to reality. Plato, Aristotle, Descartes, Kant, Locke, and Sartre are all major figures in ontology.

So what are some arguments of ontology? You may have heard of some and not known it. The argument for the existence of God based upon irreducable parts. It is also called Intelligent Design. Satre argued that the nature of being is perceived through a subject who observes objects in the world that the subject wants to inhabit as a desire to experience novel being. Descartes argued that cognitive thought processes differentiated the existence of man from other things in the universecogito ergo sum.

The other school of being is epistemology or the school of knowing. How does one know they exist? Whereas ontology argues for or against existence, epistemology argues for or against the nature of knowledge. Subject-object can fit here due to the knowledge of subjects and objects, experience, and knowledge of experience.

So as you can tell, the subject-object dichotomy straddles two concepts: existence and knowledge. So what exactly is the subject-object dichotomy? Buckle up, were going full philosophy.

Source for this can be found in the Satre piece linked above.

People are subjects. They observe the world. They experience the world. They exist and as a result of existence in the world, they perceive the world. Our perception of the world is thus our existence in the world and our knowledge of the world. If something is perceived by us, it exists in some part due to our perception of it.

Everything that is NOT you is an object. Lets start small. Your keyboard is an object because it is independent of you. It exists in space regardless of you. Your house is an object because its not part of you. It is outside of you. Now, stepping back to the actual argument philosophy makespeople are objects. Your mother is an object. Your father is an object. Any entity, consciousness, item, or thing outside of your existence is an object.

So if you walk outside and someones walking across the street, you are the subject for you and they are the object. However, they are the subject for THEM and you are the object for them. Perception of the world is thus divided upon two things: subjects and objects.

So take for example the car outside. Does it exist? How do you know? Are you sure? You have to check it to make sure its there. You are the subject of your world. Without your perception of the world in any manner, the world may not exist for you. You must perceive it for it to exist.

This is the essence of the subject-object dichotomy. How can one understand the external world in abject reality if reality is filtered through the subject? How can subjects know that objects exist outside of the experience of the subject? What is the nature of the brain as a physiological organ and the mind that keeps track of reality? How can one separate the subjective state of existence from the objective nature of reality?

The argument is the very basis of postmodernism and cognitive bias. In no way can such a complex argument be reduced to subjects act, objects are acted upon due to the relative nature of subjects and objects. This relative nature of subjects and objects are never accounted.

The subject-object dichotomy orienting to gender with one gender as uniformly substrate, not shockingly, come from a field of philosophy that is incredibly new called feminist philosophy. Feminist philosophy is both young and criticize in the world of philosophy as it is inherently sexist in stating women have unique views of knowledge because they are women.

In the argument, McIntosh and Sarkeesian present that the protagonist is the subject, the person the game is centered upon. The damsel trope, the pair argue, makes men the subject because men must be the protagonist (men rescuing women). However, this does not account for women being the protagonist, multiple protagonists, or choice of protagonist. The assumption is that men are the default character and women will always be saved.

Unfortunately for the pair, video games use many narrative and plot devices. They have many protagonists, and protagonists are not always the character that is controlled by the player. So McIntosh and Sarkeesian misrepresent the subject-object dilemma, call it a dichotomy (meaning two opposed concepts), and slide in gender.

In my original research, which will be published at a later date, 1,460 games up to the Nintendo era do not have a gendered main character. This includes sports game and games that used figures without gender. This is 70% of identified games. This means that of the games period examined by the pair, most games were not gendered in protagonist. They were actually quite androgynous. I fully expect this number to change once I get into more modern games. The current correlation seems to put more gendering as the technology became more advanced to represent more complex shapes and show gender.

Once upon a time in the magical world of STEM things were good. They were real good. Any plucky young kid could take their Commodore 64, turn it on and start programming. Now these kids didnt have it easy. Computers were not cool during this time period. They were picked on, they were called nerds, geeks, losers. This did not discourage their enthusiasm for learning though. They knew that computers were powerful and through their mastery, the kids too could become powerful.
The kids were taken by the magic of computing and for many it turned into more than a hobby. They made careers out of it.
This early computing industry was an exciting place to be. Two guys in a garage could build the next empire. Everything was invented from scratch on the fly. New operating systems were aplenty. New user interfaces, new games! The industry thrived.
Maybe the industry thrived a little too much because soon the business guys came to the party. Now these were not nice guys and they didnt have a passion for technology but they did bring some money with them. This allowed the passionate developers to make quite a good living doing what they loved. The business guys, or suits as they were called, were tolerated but laughed at behind their backs for being incompetent. This was the Dilbert age.
Fast forward to the early 2000s. The internet had gone mainstream and attracted many more suits. Social networking was invented and your grandma got on Facebook. A new breed of individual detected a large potential audience and jumped face first into technology.
These were the attention junkies. They were upper middle class kids with liberal arts degrees. At first everyone wondered what these people would do in the technology industry. They had no real skills after all. Sadly, it didnt matter. These newcomers leveraged their parents connections to get placed in marketing roles throughout the industry.
At first they were just dead weight. Many brave engineers fought to remove their cancerous presence from the industry. But these talentless freeloaders developed a defense. The defense of becoming professional victims!
Now you might ask yourself, how could a privileged individual become a victim? Such an oxymoron could never exist. The useless cruft had a secret though. Laying dormant in their non-skillet was a vast array of gender study knowledge they picked up at liberal arts school. Previously useless, this intrepid cruft started testing the use of this knowledge in the industry. The SJW was born!
The reaction was swift and violent. Due to the nature of the newly formed social networks, and the preexisting privilege networks these people had, they were able to rapidly spread the idea that patriarchy was victimizing them. Suddenly they were the ones at the disadvantage and the evil engineers and their male dominated society was holding them back.
This idea spread like wildfire. Some engineers tried to fight it and were ousted from the industry. Others remained silent. Sadly, many joined ranks with this powerful plague as they saw the sparkly money and fame these people wielded and wanted a part of it for themselves.
Power, money, fame and influence were quickly consolidated in places like San Francisco, Brooklyn and London. The press was completely co-opted and a dark cloud grew over the technology industry.
As the industry was sinking, some engineers looked up and saw a curious creature staring at them from the edge of the quicksand. The gamer! Who was this person that dared not jump into the pool of feces the SJWs had created?
The brave gamer, the last and only hope! We developers, drowning in a pool of SJW injustice cry out to you! HELP! HELP US! We will fight with you if you can give us the slightest boost out of the sucking void that is devouring our industry, our hobbies and our souls. We will stand by your side.
Allistar Pinsof, a former writer for Destructoid, has come forward after dealing with a year of turmoil and frustration for not having received proper justice, following an unusual situation that spawned from Pinsof warning consumers about an IndieGoGo campaign. Combined with certain e-mails from the Game Journo Pros mailing list, his information corroborates a lot of what gamers suspected but didnt know how to deal with or expose. For the purpose of this story, some names may be redacted as requested by some people involved with the situation.

A quick recap is as follows: Pinsof was investigating a potential case of fraud involving an IndieGoGo campaign that sprung up back in early April, 2013. In early May, Pinsof exposed certain information about the crowdfunding campaign to the public, but in doing so riled up a lot of vitriol from certain communities. After discussing some of the events on Twitter, both the individual involved with the IndieGoGo and Pinsof resolved the situation in a roundtable discussion at Gamers Against Bigotry, on May 18th, 2013. All would seem well in the world except, it wasnt.

Before the roundtable discussion took place, Pinsof was still catching heat, with some Destructoid bloggers calling for his head for leaking information about the individual that was seen as damaging to certain communities.

Throughout the week ending on May 18th, 2013, Pinsof and Destructoid owner Yanier Niero Gonzalez had a series of back and forth e-mails. Gonzalez had suspended Pinsof for taking to Twitter to talk about the situation after he advised him not to. On May 17th, 2013 Yanier Niero Gonzalez took to the Game Journo Pros group e-mails to consult with other editors, managers and site owners to see how they would handle the situation.

Some suggested that Niero seek legal advice, others called for Allistair to be fired. Chris Dahlen, former editor-in-chief at Kill Screen and best known for stating that everyone draws their own ethical lines, stated

Quoting "Niero" Allistair decides to post the facts on Twitter against our wishes despite not asking him to do so, and also publicly outs Redacted. It was an unconfirmed rumor prior to that. end quote

And by the way, I havent followed the story closely and I didnt see the tweets. I think you should fire him because just based on the way you wrote the e-mail, you seem to think thats the right decision

Jonathan Deesing, former G4 contributor and freelance games writer, stated the following in the GJP thread

Yeah up until this point I was on the side of not firing the guy. This would have been a good opportunity to make an example of him while not firing him. People always love the reformed guy

Danielle Riendeau, senior reviewer at Polygon, also came forward to note that Pinsof deserved to be fired, stating

Ive been following the situation with interest, and I feel for you, Niero. I think legal counsel is a very good idea, and I also think you probably  should fire the writer in question,

Interestingly enough, only one person actually asked whether or not the alleged victim in question should actually be questioned first before anyone made any rash decisions to fire a writer for exposing an issue that consumers should be made aware of. However, following through with fact-checking was immediately shot down.

In all of the distracting, hysterical, evidence-free and unfair allegations of misogyny and bigotry hurled at supporters of GamerGate, the consumer revolt that continues to surface outrageous misconduct in the video games press, something is being forgotten. 
GamerGate is remarkableand attracts the interest of people like mebecause it represents perhaps the first time in the last decade or more that a significant incursion has been made in the culture wars against guilt-mongerers, nannies, authoritarians and far-Left agitators.
Industry after industry has toppled over, putting up no more of a fight than, say, France in 1940. Publishing, journalism, TV... all lie supine beneath the crowing, cackling, censorious battle-axes, male and female, of the third-wave feminist and social justice causes. 
But not gamers. Lovers of video games, on seeing their colleagues unfairly hounded as misogynists, on watching journalists credulously reporting scandalous sexual assault claims just because a person was perceived to be "right-wing" and on seeing the games they love attacked and their very identities denied and ridiculed, have said: no. This will not stand.
The reaction in the press has been bewilderment and, then, apoplectic rage, driven at least in part by a media establishment that sees video gamersthe supposed dorks and basement-dwellers of popular imaginationmounting a credible and effective defence against the liars, frauds, neurotics and attention-seekers who have already destroyed morale and wrecked culture in the comic, sci fi and fantasy worlds.
In other words, some of the bitterness comes from people who are shocked that it took video gamers to say, "No more of this, thank you." 
Because hard-core gaming is overwhelmingly maledon't believe cherry-picked statistics that tell you women now make up 50 per cent of gamers; they don't, in any meaningful senseand because those men are often of a stubborn, obsessive, hyper-competitive and systematic bent, it has produced an army finally capable of launching offensives against the censorsusing the censors' own tactics, such as advertiser boycotts, against them.
And thus a front has opened up in the culture wars; an opening through which others might peek and from which others should be seeking inspiration. The language of the authoritarian Left is quite often outrageously hatefulyou can regularly hear even mainstream journalists talking about "killing all men" and excluding "all white men" from industries and cultures.
What gamers have done is draw insistent, unapologetic attention to the fact that, were the tables turned, such language would be regarded as socially unacceptable. They have exposed it for what it is: bigotry and hate speech. And they have not shied away from revealing the personal shortcomings of some of the far-Left loons who seek to poison their hobby with finger-wagging about "sexism."
They are right to consider those shortcomings. The opponents of GamerGate include a former soft-core porn actress who claims to have stabbed someone in the face and killed him but not reported it to the police, and who, by her own definition, is a rapist.
They include a neo-Nazi who has written that Hitler was "my fcking idol" and has written things about Jewish people not repeatable here. They include a dishevelled, psychologically unstable transsexual, said to have been the subject of a restraining order, who is a proven liar yet whose claims are repeated uncritically by a credulous press. 
No arrests have been made as a result of her reports and many suspect her threateners are figments of her own feverish imagination.
And they include a former multi-level marketing scammer turned feminist heroine, who has never really been particularly interested in video games, but who can be seen at conferences revelling in her newfound fame and wealth which has come about not because her critiques are effective, but because she embarked on a massive press tour off the back of threats she says she received, not a single of which has ever been traced to a GamerGate supporter.
This is the pantheon of self-promoters, opportunists and oddballs who have made gamers' lives a misery over these past few months. And yet: gamers are not going away. 
For years, it was accepted that once the finger-wagging feminists moved in on your industry, you would capitulate quickly to their pseudo-academic treatises on the "male gaze." 
Video games, and GamerGate in particular, have bucked the trend, showing that with politeness and persistence bogus feminist critiques can be rebuffed and self-obsessed attention-seekers can be subjected to the same degree of scrutiny they set out to shine on others... with occasionally gruesome results.
There are signs of political consequence to this awakeninga realisation among gamers that in fact their hobby is intrinsically what we might call libertarian, since it focuses on individual agency, personal responsibility, ties between allies... all in service of goals and specific achievements. That is the essence of libertarian psychology.
Left-leaning media typically luxuriate in the helplessness of a perceived victim in the face of oppression, whether real or imagined. Observe the focus on narrative, and deprecation of gameplay, in soppy indie games such as Gone Home, to which the Left-wing press of course gave glowing reviews.
Jonathan McIntosh, the writer behind far-Left feminist critic Anita Sarkeesian's videos, says that: "The core value of patriarchal masculinity is control. Its not a coincidence that control is central to many video game mechanics & stories." He intends this remark to be pejorative, but in fact it is individual agency that represents mainstream gaming's greatest achievement: it gives power to typically powerless people.
It sounds odd, when the press is so full of claims that women are being victimisednever with any proof beyond personal testimony, mindto say that gamers are the real victims in all this. But it's true, just the same. Often marginalised, lonely people, sometimes with challenging psychologies, gamers retreat into "vidya" to escape a world in which they feel they have no control. 
So video games aren't an expression of patriarchial tendencies. It's absurd to even call gamers representative of the patriarchy: at the risk of generalising, they are more often sensitive, introverted, sexually inhibited or even confused people. Rather, games allow people on the margins of society to experience what it's like to have their actions matter, in a safe, virtual environment.
That's the essence of the clash between GamerGate supporters and everyone else: most people don't grasp what sort of people gamers are, nor why they play games. And how could they? Most of them have barely a passing acquaintance with the immersive action games that make up most of the libraries of most gamers. (Just enough of one to see a scantily-clad woman and cry: "Sexist!") 
Great art asks questions. It is provocative, and it empowers. That's what immersive games such as Call of Duty provide for players. Feminised, infantilised, social justice-oriented art sets aside creativity in favour of politics, wallowing in faux victimhood, robbing players of agency and individualism in favour of identity politics and meditations on "oppression."
So that's the real war here. It's not just about who slept with whom, and whether that affected coverage, nor even about whether some outlets have financial relationships with publishers that go beyond what readers consider acceptable. It's a battle for the soul of the games industry and a wake-up call to journalists that their personal politics simply aren't welcome in their coverage, because they don't reflect anything like the views of their readers.
As Brad Wardell, CEO of Stardock, puts it: "The concern is that game developers and publishers will compromise the artistic vision of their game in order to avoid Metacritic-related punishment or negative editorial coverage rather than based on what gamers actually want to play.
"Many in the gaming press, see any objection to encouraging feminism, social justice and alternative-lifestyle representation in gaming as misogyny and bigotry. It doesn't occur to them that most people who play games aren't political and simply don't like seeing game publications using their platforms to push their ideology on them."
In perhaps the clearest sign yet that the authoritarian Left knows it is losing this war, perhaps because it realises gamers have the upper hand in numbers, intelligence and purchasing power, repeated personal attacks on supporters and even on sympathetic journalists are now a staple of coverage. This comes at the same time as lifelong gamers publish funerals to their own feminism and declare their support for the GOP.
Chillingly for free speech, mass suspensions of Twitter accounts that have the temerity to publicly support press reform and reject feminist critiques of video games as irrelevant, sneering, pseudo-academic drivel are now being attempted by impotent feminist groups whose only weapon is the silencing of dissent. 
GamerGaters should be joyful. But they should also remember that, rather than responding in kind with personal attacks, doxxing, threats and totalitarian tactics, they should concentrate on the very real concerns they have and have had for a decade with a press that, swamped with discredited far-Left ideology and unintelligent, poorly-trained writers, refuses to tell basic truths.
Thats not nearly good enough. The clear implication from your segment was that I was involved in harassing women.
Rarely outside of the Islamic world has any religion been as censorious, moralising, oppressive and plain douchey as modern feminism.
Can a fart be misogynist?
 
Its fun to see how ideologically religious mind works, i mean i only saw your kind in movies when i was a kid, since i live in country ravaged by your kind, peoples like you were popping up all over the place, the blinded  ideologues who will rather die for they religion than to analize it. You know why I am a Gamergater ? Because women in my country are equal, heck in my city (3rd biggest in the country ) not only is our president a woman, but our richest citizen is a woman too. We have women everywhere and noone is 'mysogynist' against them, yea theres a bit of sexism, but its both ways and mostly in older population. Why am i writing all this ? because i spend most of my time in 'english' internet, and i felt both assaulted and offended to constantly hear that I Heterosexual white man am the problem. I'm tired of hearing that i hate women, and the only way for me to be saved is to subscribe to either totalitarian SJW where more equal pigs decide what is right or wrong, or to gender supremacy group that claims that all men can be is aggressor and all women can be is victim. Also, trolls or insane people are on both side of this conflict, the only diffrence is that you protect those on your side, while you make a handful minority into major voice. Also yeah you guys will probably win this, theres no vay gg can succeed vs corruption or vs SJW shit smearing, just because the narrative is and it seems always was on your side. IT must be awesome to be always on the winning side, eh ?

Guess what guys? It was never a secret that we hated SJWs and we were planning to shred their influence like wet tissue paper.
That said, we wish to inform you that your current change in the narrative whereby the Great Coochie Menace, as we refer to it around the watercooler/office smoke spot, has taken Priority Alpha tends to dilute your original message. It makes your overall purpose a tough sell and gives you the appearance and authority of having fallen off the turnip truck.
If you look at ghazi now, 90% of the posts are hand wringing about how we're not focusing on games journalism and instead calling attention to #Shirtgate. They're running scared. Brigaded comment after brigaded comment calls for us to go back to what they defined our movement as.
Also, as youre bifurcating it into other -gates of ostensible malfeasance, your structure is decentralized and youre reliant on Twitter to spread your message: a co-ordinated team of lone actors can do considerable damage.
This topic is a massive thank you to all of anti-Gamergate and it's job of helping us recruit people to our cause. Let us honor them with a speech!
Thank you Anti-Gamergate, for creating a haven of incompetence that it has only helped those seeking the truth directly to us.
Thank you Anti-Gamergate for sending dead animals and knives to normal people who then realize who their true allies are.
Thank you Anti-Gamergate, for ignoring women and minorities in our group and only making us stronger from within.
We thank you for all the efforts done to stop us from entering other places and thus helping us create our own places of discussion and keeping our community together.
Thank you anti-Gamergate for being proud of your hateful ways to the point of driving out progessive people strait to us.
Thank you Anti-Gamergate for helping to further our cause by bringing it to the mainstream media, and those that wish to know the truth we talk to once you drive them away from your own shores.
We thank you Gamerghazi for showing people the way to the truth in the way only a violent sociopathic monster would. We thank you for your great contribution to this consumer revolt and all the members we have gained from your awe inspiring attitude towards us!
We thank you Neogaf for purposefully defending your admins with almost religious zealotry. We thank you for showing us what a site run by sexual harassers can be like!
We thank you Anita Sarkeeson for your beliefs about men and how you treat young children being gunned down in their homes for bringing us more and more users per day!
We thank you Zoe Quinn for not only helping get this movement started, but also show us that doxxing charities is ethical and using the death of a very well loved celebrity to advertise your game is a good thing!
We thank you Briana Wu for also helping bring our group into the mainstream media so we have the chance to talk to those who sought information the truth of the situation. We truly thank you for our many strong numbers!
But most importantly, we thank you Game journalism for not only creating animosity with your audience over the course of ten years but also finally being the ones to push the buttons to submit the articles which would finally bring gamers old and young, black and white and men and women together once and for all against the biases you have been shoving down our throats! We thank you game journalism for all the help!
We thank all of you for strengthening our movement day by day! Truly! We love that you care about us so much to mention us everyday to the point where people join us! Thank you!
Gamergate is the nightmare scenario. A motivated, educated, innovative, and intelligent culture naturally expressing all the values purported by the social justice warriors.
Certainly sympathetic and neutral observers of gamergate must find the absolutist rhetoric of the particularly enthusiastic anti-gamergate voices rather off-putting, but would-be neutral parties experiencing bizarre ultimatums such as "not condemning gamergate supports misogyny" likely find the reaction especially perplexing. What's probably occurring is about equal parts sad, hilarious, and amazing.
Through the DiGRA affiliation and the nature of the SJW politics, it's a very linear implication that the goal to "destroy gamers" as a culture has been a priority for quite some time. In "technical" terms, they want to demolish the cultural hegemony of "gamers" as in order to upset the existing power structure borne of capitalism, which has thus far dictated the direction of games development. Though the extent and nature of their coordination in this task may be impossible to know, the goal is very clearly in line with the values of DiGRA-type academics and critical theorists in general. They were young, they were right, and they were going to change the fucking world.
The first step was to utilize politically sympathetic members of games journalism to obtain oligopolistic editorial power, and it was unbelievably easy. They never stepped back and reflected upon why invasion of a journalistic community covering a billion dollar behemoth of an industry was a relatively trivial affair. Possibly a "manifest destiny"-type situation, with the academic back-end thrilled they'd finally broken into the main stream and the young PR front-end drunk on success and power.
The subsequent step was to steadily ratchet the overt political content of articles. This would at worst alienate and at best enrage the "undesirables" of gamer culture. The ragers would bring in clicks to keep the money flowing, and any acting out supported the editorial narrative anyway. Win-win. And it worked, probably even better than they'd hoped.
The next step would be to trigger a paradigm shift indelibly tarring the label "gamer", crippling the cohesive identity of the culture and consequentially demolishing the aforementioned hegemony. No doubt already watching intently for gamers behaving badly, it was simply a matter of waiting for an incident with sufficiently broad emotional resonance. A story so appalling that general (non-gaming) audiences couldn't look away, and news outlets had no reason to let them. With enough eyes on it, they could exploit their editorial power to ensure that "gaming culture" would take the lion's share of the blame. Then, before the story went viral, in concert "pull the trigger" declaring "gamer culture" dead, and watch the rest of the media amplify their narrative. Viola, "gamer" is a slur.
Clearly the choice of instigating incident was poor. Maybe they were having trouble finding truly juicy scandals. Maybe they were coming to rescue to a friend both to the cause and their persons. Maybe Eron and Zoe staged it for them. Clearly their relationship with Zoe never occurred to them as a potential pitfall, nor the stark disparity in the handling of Zoe's incident compared to Max Tempkin's, still fresh in people's minds.
Of whatever scenarios imagined, likely none included the current history of gamergate. In their hubris, they sought to fracture a culture and lay the foundations for ones more inclusive; what they created was nemesis.
Borne amongst censorship and slander it enshrined freedom of expression as a hard rule and truth as a fundamental virtue. Hounded from site to site, it embraced cyber-nomadism yet despite decentralization maintained cohesion. Each time a venue's mod squad clamped down (often for free!), the resulting migration adopted new converts welcomed with the warm embraces of what is potentially the most inclusive internet community since Usenet. A great deal of bitter, deep-seated animosity existed between many of these communities, fostering tolerance as another core virtue.
Rather than dissipate into the aether, the very cultural tumor they aimed to excise went hostilely virulent beyond their control, emerging as a dark mirror of their own ideological shortcomings. These would-be cultural surgeons who flipped the switch brought to life their own personal golem. Gamergate is the nightmare scenario. A motivated, educated, innovative, and intelligent culture naturally expressing all the values purported by the social justice warriors. Diverse, inclusive, and tolerant with none of the harsh shaming and shunning of dissenters. Additionally, rallying cries "freedom of expression" and "journalistic integrity" are easy sells making them difficult to oppose in a tweet or sound bite. All of this with an effectively bottomless well of antagonism towards SJWs.
Although the instigators are likely primarily concerned with the ire of the golem, likely much of the incessant and adamant push-back from most SJWs is motivated by an intense terror this monster will provide legitimization of their most hated enemies. Gamergate opposition to social justice warriors and doctrines of tolerance and inclusiveness couldn't help but attract undesirables even more loathsome than the gamers, i.e. men's right's activists and conservatives. Understand that a social justice warrior is a fundamentally political person, filtering almost every situation through their ideological lens. Combine that with a strong collectivist instinct and a postmodern attitude towards truth. Political consequences are of primary concern, and they project this prioritization upon others; they're playing team sports 24/7 and factual correctness of their arguments are immaterial. By providing shelter for their enemies, gamergaters support their enemies and it is of little concern whether that support is generally tacit or explicit. So when pronouncing gamergate as, say for instance, misogynistic, there's an implicit "in terms of political efficacy" afterwards.
The enemies they've likely forgotten, much to their detriment, are the skeptics. The clusterfuck yielding Atheism+ ensured a deep-seated resentment in the skeptic community. SJWs being identity obsessed, likely had no clue that the vast, vast majority of skeptics did not associate with the skeptic community, or even openly describe themselves as skeptical. But they appreciated the skeptical movement as a response to the wave of religiously and politically motivated anti-scientific sentiment very visibly cresting during the mid-aughts. SJWs, before SJW was even in the lexicon, tried and failed to stage a coup demanding their core tenets vis--vis social justice be accepted by the skeptics without skepticism. The resulting civil war hobbled the skeptical community and spawned Atheism+, the little movement that could continue to fail. What SJWs didn't understand is that the vast, vast majority of silent skeptics took note of this travisty. Skeptics aren't obvious, because skepticism as a philosophy or point of view encourages the eschewment of identity. They're the special forces wing of gamergate, hidden in plain sight and experienced in dismantling the rhetorical abuses engaged by SJWs to squelch opposition.
The fact of the matter is, gamergate poses a very fundamental threat to everything SJWs stand for. Tolerance without censorship. Inclusiveness without shunning. Natural diversity. Objectivity over relativism. This isn't only a political threat, gamergate threatens many core tenets of the SJW outlook. The skeptics are training the gamers in the weaknesses of the SJW debate strategies, and for the first time they find their hold on the narrative slipping. Even worse, legitimization of gamergate suggests they never really understood "gamer culture" at all, despite their education by "experts" in cultural studies and in some instances direct guidance by cultural scholars specializing in gaming; specifically, gamergate thrived upon institutional oppression before it even had a name, starkly contradicting one of the most cherished "facts" of their education. Gamergate must be a Trojan Horse, because if it isn't, what does that make them?
I like to think that, in this metaphor, the kangaroo ran into the water and didn't realize we were actually a crocodile so we're quite at home in the water. They tried to drown us and didn't realize we could hold our breath for hours at a time if we desired to. And we're a crocodile so we just bit down and locked the jaw and started thrashing around saying "Sorry, but you're dead. You picked a fight with the wrong predator."
The more succinctly SJWs are exposed the more people will turn on them. It's important to discredit them and their tactics at every turn. I see LGBTs as potential allies as they they tend to be sex positive and anti censorship. They also resent cis people speaking on their behalf.
It is a fairly accurate quote. I look at the anti-GG side and ask myself "what is their end game?", I don't see one. They talk about big things like ending misogyny and having more women in the gaming industry, but I see very little towards that goal. They are also screaming at entirely the wrong people to achieve that goal. Gamers can't really make the game industry a better place for women. The game industry has to do that. In fact as far as I can tell they have been doing that for a while now. They just need to give a little more face time to some of their talented female devs.
Meanwhile with #GG the end game seems like something that is clear and achievable. More ethics in game journalism achieved by better transparency and a less cozy relationship with PR.
HEY NOW
YOU'RE A ROGUESTAR
MAKING ANTIS
AFRAID

HEY NOW
YOU'RE A ROGUESTAR
AND NOW PSYOPS
ARE SAVED
@RogueStarGamez 
#GamerGate
#OpRogueStar
OPERATION #OpSKYNET 
 
 RETWEET 
 
 FOLLOW ALL #GAMERGATE SUPPORTERS WHO RT 
 
 REPEAT 
 Signal boost this great piece of journalism about a person who does not so great journalism. TO THE MOON!
 Please spread this new vid to anyone who has been blacklisted.
That rt button is free btw :)
Remember these words when they give up and beg for forgiveness
No mercy, down with the corrupt media
KILL GAWKER!
What about the blacklists ? I'm not aware of any, haven't seen any posts about them until this. Is this a hypothetical conjecture?
The only talk of blacklists I've seen are GamerGate's own blacklists of websites and GamerGate "consumer blacklists" of developers who've publicly spoken out against GG, with the stated purpose to avoid buying games from those devs.
An engineer from Blizzard made a joke about blacklisting GamerGate members, and now we're using this joke tweet to raise our victimhood profile among people with absolutely no understanding of anti-trust laws.
How quickly we've gone from protecting helpless developers from unethical journalists and rabid SJWs to threatening the developers themselves.
So.  I said Id do this and here it is.  I have a theory and I wanted to share it. Seemed topical given the online battle going on over video games.

What is up with female representation in video games?  Is it sexism?  Misogyny?  Ignorant?  Well, I have an idea and let me share it with you.  As usual, please, indulge me and read to the end.  It is along read so I hope you all are buckled in.

What is my theory?  That the problems with representation isnt to do with the negative outlook on women from society.  It comes from the inherent positive view of women society has.  That is to say, the view that women are inherently nice and pure, that we shield women from harm, that society cares much more about the plight of women than it does men.

Im sure Ive already lost a lot of you.  But please, read beyond the break.  Give me a fair shake.  Im a woman and Ive been a gamer for a long time, probably close to a decade and a half.  Ive seen these issues evolve and Ive experienced a lot of this behavior in real life.  So, Ill say again.

Give me a fair shake.

The Female Power Fantasy

One of the first things society needs to understand is the concept of idealization and the female power fantasy.  A lot of people already understand what a male power fantasy is but people seem to ignore even the possibility that a female power fantasy exists.  Male and female power fantasies both involve heavy idealization of their forms, appeal to conventional beauty standards and to be powerful and in control of themselves and others.

The idea of the female power fantasy is not new, though the idea of accepting it seems to be a hurdle society doesnt seem to like.  Looking at something as widespread as cosplay is enough to prove that many women like dressing up in sexy outfits and looking badass at the same time.  Playing similar characters has a similar effect.



The idea that women must be somehow protected from their own sexuality or idealized forms, when men dont need to be is pretty condescending.  Many male characters adhere to idealized male forms.  The double standard, of course, is that when a male character is sexy it is empowerment but when a female character is sexy, it is sexism.

Society needs to get over the fact that women can have a power fantasy and that power fantasy can include looking sexy and being badass.

How will this help video games?  Developers can focus on what actually constitutes a female power fantasy and employ it without fear of being chastised.  Well see more games and characters like Bayonetta 1 and 2, where powerful, sexy women are prominent and people wont feel a need to decry it as sexism.  The fact that so many women cosplay as Bayonetta and enjoy the series should be enough to justify why this would do good for female representation in games.

Damsels in Distress:  How We Hate Women in Pain

Lets be real here.  Society hates seeing a woman in pain.  We, as a whole, dislike seeing women suffer, women hurt and women in general anguish.  Men?  We tend to be very okay with the concept of them dying, being hurt and being injured.

Consider the outcry about a game where a male protagonist spends his time gunning down hundreds of female NPCs.  How offensive would that be to society as a whole?  Now flip the genders, a female character gunning down male minions and suddenly it becomes socially acceptable.

We saw this in the Tomb Raider Reboot, where people were outright decrying the game as misogynistic and fetishizing abuse toward women, as Lara Croft was put through hell and back.  She was stabbed, impaled, crushed, beaten and well just about every possible thing possible.



An example in media that I like to use is the Marvel Cinematic Universe.  Consider Black Widow and how much damage she takes in Avengers and Winter Soldier.  Compared to nearly every other character (Hulk notwithstanding due to being well nearly invincible) she takes nearly no damage in the Avengers.  She gets smacked by Hulk (which frankly shouldve liquefied her but only left her with a limp for 5 minutes).  In Winter Soldier she is shot once, where Steve is shot, pummeled, thrown through glass, stabbed and electrocuted.  Hell, even Wilson and Fury got the crap kicked out of them more than Widow did.

Need more proof?  Imagine the torture scene from Casino Royale with a similar (but tailored for a woman) method of torture.  Imagine the outrage at that.



So why is this important?  Because we use pain to empathize with a character.  We put characters through hell and back, we hurt characters, we make them suffer, because we want to feel something for them.  The creators of Tomb Raider knew this.  Pain and suffering shows conviction, it shows fortitude, it lets us empathize and creates drama.

And, yes, in fairness, games that let you choose your gender typically do avert this.  And fighting games do usually involve female characters being beaten up.  But those tend to be in the name of context and immersion.  Itd be odd seeing the female characters in, say, a bloodbath like Mortal Combat  walk out of a  loss unscathed.

How will this help video games?  If developers could no longer fear the backlash like Tomb Raider got, wed get more female characters in action roles.  We could see more female characters put through hell.  Consider the games where male characters are put through that hell.  Adam Jensen, nearly every iteration of Snake, etc.  Their pain has purpose and the story theyre in wouldnt be the same without it.



Femtality:  Violence and Women

This is a minor one.  Most people realize that women can kill, can fight, etc.  But Ive noticed a general trend.  Women tend to avoid brutality and their kills are usually very clean, save for the case of self defense.

Lets go back to Marvel.  Black Widow.  Consider her entire combat repertoire.  We see Thor, Iron Man and Cap all do relatively brutal things, ranging from pummeling, smashing and generally messier kinds of fighting.  Even Hawkeye, who is similar, tends to have more brutal kills due to him using a bow and arrow.

We dont usually see women resort to brutal tactics EXCEPT in cases where theyre defending themselves.  We, as society, dont like to acknowledge that women can be extremely violent just because they can.  We dont have a female Kratos, for example.  In fact, I think given the amount of brutality Kratos exhibits, a lot of people would be put off by the fact that a female character would be eviscerating, impaling and slaughtering enemies like he does.



How would this help video games?  Like I said, there are women who kill in video games.  But lessening that social construct that women cannot be merciless killers or hyper violent would allow for some better depictions.  Itd help female characters break into genres far more dominated by male characters.  Itd get rid of the damsel idea a lot of people have about women in video games when you, clearly, have women whod be fine hacking and slashing her way through a wave of enemies.

Women and Morality: The Event Horizon

And this is where I get the hatemail.    Society does not like to address the fact that women can be monsters.  Nobody likes to admit that women can be abusers, sexual predators, pedophiles, alcoholics, drug addicts, sociopaths or psychopaths.

I applaud Dredd for the character of MaMa, but even though she was inherently cutthroat she didnt really do much.  She had a male right and left hand to do the skinning, murder and killing for her.  And while she was clearly a corrupt and deadly character, we didnt see a lot of that in action.



Women are usually portrayed as manipulative, liars or succubi, relatively non-violent, more passive failings.  Men often get portrayed as violent, abusive, alcoholic, murders, etc.  But in the real world, women can be these as well.  Society just doesnt like to talk about that though.

Society is inherently better accepting that a man can cross the moral event horizon, rather than a woman.  In Fallout New Vegas, the characters with downright evil karma, the cannibals and rapists, are all men, for example.  Alice, the Madness Returns, has a male character that does very much cross the moral event horizon.  Hell, I dont think I can recall a female protagonist with a drinking problem, like full blown alcoholism, drowning at the bottom of a bottle.



Society needs to come to terms with the idea that women are not infantile angels, incapable of atrocity or awful things committed against their fellow human beings.  It needs to stop condescending toward women, acting like theyre incapable of these acts.

How does this help video games?  Simple.  It gives us a greater range for characters.  Characters are often driven by their faults.  Rage, alcoholism, abuse, etc, are all extremely viable flaws for a protagonist to grapple with and come to terms with.  Meanwhile, some of the darker flaws, like torture, abuse, predatory nature, can create some truly disturbing villains, ones that become extremely memorable.  It allows women to have flaws which ties into

Unrealistic Standards:  How Female Characters dont have to be Perfect

Women are not perfect. Women can have flaws.  Women can be weak or have failings.

I hate when characters like Lara or Ellie get criticized for being weak and therefore it is a bad depiction of women.  Sorry, but women can and do have weakness, just like men do.  If anything, the fact that we dont have male characters breaking down and showing this level of weakness shows societys inherent discomfort with MEN showing emotion.  If anything, this gives female characters a greater range of emotion to explore.

But even then, not every woman needs to be strong in the way you think.  Everyone criticizes Princess Peach.  Peach is the perpetual, stereotypical damsel, right?  So why are you measuring her by her ability to kick ass when shes a princess?  Shes a debutant, a princess, royalty.  Do you expect her to bust out a hammer and start kicking ass?



What people seem to forget about Peach is her character.  She is kind, compassionate, caring.  Her people love her, she is the heart of the Mushroom Kingdom.  Weve seen repeatedly that her subjects adore her and worry for her when she is in danger.  Everyone forgets games like Paper Mario: Thousand Year Door where she tries to escape herself, where she is extremely kind, extremely gentle and extremely compassionate, to the point where she actually sways a computer into caring about her.

Princess Peach is not some kick ass warrior.  She isnt perfect.  But shes a different kind of character.  And a good one when you look at her in that light.

Hell, even in the same universe we have an example.  Who the fuck gives Luigi shit for acting the way he does?  People love Luigi.  Luigi is awesome.  But hes cowardly, lazy and has an inferiority complex.  Which is to say a lot more personality than Mario has.  Luigi isnt perfect but nobody says that Luigi sucks.  No, Luigi is made all the better for his flaws.  And Peach is the same.



And this is where people bring up Metroid: Other M and say gamers dont WANT a woman who has flaws.  Bullshit.  Ive heard, repeated sentiments that Metroid: Other M wouldve been a great game if it was Metroid Genesis.  If it was a fresh, new Samus coming to terms and facing Ridley for the first time and being inexperienced.  But it wasnt.  People were angry because Samus reaction was not what we knew from where she was in the timeline, where she had faced Ridley at least twice (and upwards to a half dozen times before if you count Prime games) prior.  She was supposed to be a badass Bounty Hunter at the time.

People need to get over the idea that every female character needs to be perfect.  There are other ways of being strong, other ways of being a good character.  Characters having flaws makes them interesting and combined with the previous entries here, it would be a good thing to keep in mind.  Flaws, not strengths, make or break a character.

The Booker Explanation

I think this entire report could be summed up with a single question.  Would Bioshock Infinite work as well if Booker was a woman?  The answer is no.  The game relies on too many of the above issues that a lot of people would be made extremely uncomfortable with a female Booker Dewitt.

Booker is an absolute monster.  Would people be as accepting to a woman who sold her daughter?  Who was an alcoholic?  Who committed war crimes?  Who was unapologetically racist as Comstock and who killed her husband?  Who kept her daughter locked in a tower?

And Booker is violent.  How do you think people would react to you brutally drowning and bashing the head in of a female Comstock?!  How do you think people would react to a female booker snapping the necks of female police officers?  How would you feel about gunning down a dozen members of The Sorority of the Order of the Raven?



And Booker gets put through hell.  He is nearly killed by a claw hook, nearly falls to his death, has his hand stabbed (potentially), is pummelled repeatedly and thrown out of a blimp, and is ultimately drowned.   In the DLC you see him get impaled and killed in first person.



I admit, in Burial at Sea 2, Elizabeth does do a lot more than a lot of female characters do.  But not nearly as much as Booker.  Shes a stealth character, making her less violent.  She is tortured and hurt, though not nearly as much a Booker (and the fact that it was meant to put Atlas squarely into the absolute monster position) and she does make a mistake.  But even then, everything she does apparently turns out for the better, even her mistake ends up causing something really good to happen.

I honestly feel that if Bioshock Infinite was released with a female protagonist, itd be ripped to shreds by a lot of people for the above listed reasons.  You want that game, with a female character like Booker?  You want characters with that level of depth, story and fault?  Then we need to stop acting like this is the work of misogyny and start realizing that it is because society has an overwhelmingly positive view of women.

Thank you all for reading.  If you enjoyed this, reblog and recommend to others.
We need to get Anime fans involved in GG, they must know that if we lose the fight now, anime will be next and easier to attack due to precedence, they will just say that anime are as sexist as video games, at that point after they scored a victory on gamergate it will be widely accepted that they were right about games so it should be applied to anime too. Anima are far worse than games by their standard if you consider the seinen anime in particular.
Seinen = anime marketed to a male audience aged roughly 17 on into their 40's
examples of great seinen anime:
Akira(warning, graphic trailer)
Berserk, my favourite anime
Ghost in the Shell, overrated anime in my opinion
Hellsing ultimate, there are Protestant British Monarchist fighting NAZI's and Catholic church in this anime lol:
What do you guys think, can we get anime fans involved into GG?
EDIT: Due to people saying Japanese writers don't give a fuck, consider the following.
I was watching anime since 1990's here in Europe, the Japanese anime creators adapted to demands of European anime market by making anime from European books about mountain villages in alps(i actually live in that type of village lol), anyway they adopted to Italian demands and made anime less violent because that was the main concern of European countries regarding japanese cartoons, the Mech battles destroying half cities was shocking for European parents(they actually showed those kind only in Italy in the 80's, USA didn't had idea what anime was back then). The point is if USA and Europe make specific ideological demands for anime, some of Japanese Anime companies will pander to them and make anime for their needs to get money, also lower competition because the best anime will be banned in EU and USA anyway.
Non-violent Anime made out of feminist book Little Women to pender EU audience. Italian Intro here
They even made a sequel, based from same book, one of the girls grow up and run an orphan school
examples of Anime with European alps village theme like Heidi, there were a lot of them of this kind
This anime pandered to american audience but was watched only in Italy
There are hundreds of these type of anime which was organized way of japanese anime creators to spread anime to EU and USA.
World Masterpiece Theater was an initiative of Japanese anime artists to spread anime into Europe and USA which worked and it was combined effort of most anime companies.
Masterpiece Theater ( Sekai Meisaku Gekij?) is a Japanese TV anime staple that showcased an animated version of a different classical book or story each year on 7:30 p.m. on Sunday. It originally aired from 1969 to 1997 then resumed in 2007.
Most of people that today watch anime online first started watching them on TV, people that haven't watched them on TV usually never get involved into anime so they don't watch them online either.
If SJW's influence the government into banning violent and politically incorrect anime, it might have no immediate impact due to people that are into anime are watching anime on the internet anyway, but there will be no new influx of anime fans because younger kids will never get into anime's if they don't see them on TV first.
I don't know what he means by that as I haven't heard any stories about this before. Hopefully he has a source to provide for this being done in the past. What I can presume he means is that they can target localization teams that translate anime for subtitles or dubs for Western audiences.
Anime dubs frequently require the script to be changed because a 1:1 literal translation of the Japanese will result in not only cultural references being used that audiences will not understand, but also phrases that lack literal translation. A lot can be lost in translation about the meaning that is conveyed.
Another issue with dubbing anime is that the dialogue needs to match up with the length of time that the Japanese dialogue takes, and usually needs to match up with mouth movements. This can be avoided with expensive re-animation but that's rarely if ever done.
What sometimes happens in dubs is that dialogue in translations takes on an entirely different meaning or message from its original dialogue, and things can literally be changed to fit a different narrative. Censorship often happens in these localization efforts.
Some examples: In Yu-Gi-Oh references to death are changed to "banishment to the shadow realm" and similar mumbo-jumbo. In Sailor Moon the localization to English by Cloverway Inc made Uranus and Neptune into "cousins" in order to hide their lesbian relationship. Dragonball Z had lots of location and name changes to steer away from topics of death by changing the names of Heaven and Hell and making Mr. Satan's name Hercule (despite characters dying quite frequently on this show). Also there are lots of characterization changes, like making Goku talk more like a stereotypical superhero that differs from how he talks in the original. Evangelion is another well known anime that saw characterization changes in the dub (though some people prefer them). Cardcaptor Sakura, a magical girl anime meant for a primarily young female audience, saw extensive changes in its dub that resulted in it being retitled Cardcaptors, with more focus given to a secondary male character by depicting him as an equal to the original protagonist, removing all episodes that did not feature him prominently, and removing all romance subplots of the show, effectively changing the target audience to young boys.
You'll also see things changed in localization like censorship of religious symbols or names. Drug, alcohol, and cigarette use is frequently censored by being edited out, having scenes cut, or having them replaced with something more innocent like a lollipop, tea, or "elixir". In the dubs for a few of the Gundam series all bottles that looked like alcohol were draped with a big logo that said "SODA" and all references to alcohol were replaced with coffee or soda.
TL;DR: Really most localization efforts' censorship can be explained as attempts to fit TV ratings and remove controversies to allow broadcast on stations targeted for a younger audience. The cultural differences in the USA vs Japan with regards to depictions of sexuality, nudity, alcohol, cigarettes, and religion are obvious. Censorship and sometimes vast changes to characterization and dialogue are common occurrences in localization. There is no reason to not expect attempts to make anime even more PC through localization.
edit: also "dub vs. sub" is like one of the biggest arguments you will find on anime boards on the internet mostly because of the above.
This. We all need to use the tag more. Everyone's talking the same amount, but we're not tagging in.
And remember, the thunderclap is 72 hours away - so we need to talk it up to prep for that.
#NotYourShield exists as an extension of #gamergate to point out that you cannot use minorities, women, and others as a defense to deflect criticism of poor ethical practices and standards in game journalism.

When we spoke out against out this behavior we were called sockpuppets, "Uncle Toms", imposters, traitors, anti-woman, trash, garbage, sub-human filth and much more. 

The story that you have been told in the media is not the full story, and is not the truth. This video is just a few of the VERY REAL human beings who have been told to sit down and shut up, that they cannot think for themselves, and that they cannot have a voice. We should all be very worried when we exist in a time and a place where dehumanizing someone is considered "okay."
 
These are the PEOPLE who will tell you what they think with their own words.

You may not agree with #gamergate, but it's important that you take into consideration the possibility that you've been hearing a VERY slanted and one-sided story. Question what you're being told.

not 'brainwashing' they're usually just priviledged people themselves (living in the first world with few "real" problems to deal with) who want to go on their own moral crusade to make them feel better about themselves, and they're usually from a group of people lauded no matter their skill level (aka everyone gets a trophy just for showing up). That leads to their opinions being more special than everyone else's, and the whole you're offending me, stop it method of thinking.

I don't think you understand what #GamerGate is. Here's a good link you might want to explore

Ah, so you think you understand what #GamerGate is and with your misinformation you've made a bot. How cute.

Here's some data you probably should take a look at

Ah yes a link to a comic. Sounds about right; anti-GGrs aren't actually able to back-up their claims :).

I'll throw my hat into the ring and give my theory. The idea of social justice is a strong. We all want equality. We want women to have the same chances and men, and minorities to have the same chances as the majority. And back in the 50-60's, in order to fight for a cause it meant getting out of your house, marching, spending time calling people, finding other people to work WITH. It took work. So the people who were truly passionate, who really knew they understood the problem would be the ones to get out and do something. Now? Not so much. How much work does it take to get on twitter and send out some tweets, or post on reddit? But the right tweet or post can still reach so many people. This leads to another problem as well. In the past, if an idea was crazy, (i.e. shirtgate), it would get shot down a lot of times before it became widely spread. But now anyone can have a blog, and put out really radical ideas for everyone to read. I think the proliferation of SJW's is a pretty complex thing and caused by multiple factors. But all we can do is call for reason. And work to show which of the ideas out there are far fetched.
If this was rambling I am sorry, I am on some industrial strength medications right now.

Paramount to the success of the study is its reproducibility. In making the workload manageable, the goal of 100 tweets per day was chosen as a realistically reproducible target. The daily tweet sampling needed to be consistent in order to control bias and be statistically relevant as possible. It was also important that the workload was not so large as to cause burnout or interfere with other responsibilities of anyone sampling the data.

Bias was another important factor in the reproducibility of the study. While it is impossible to eliminate bias from a survey entirely, controlling for it was a chief concern. As such, the methods and definitions were designed specifically to be as clear and free of bias as possible. Obviously, some bias still does exist. The most notable prevailing bias is that of the chronological distribution of samples. Each sample is gathered during a roughly 6 hour window close to the same timeframe every day. As such, peak activity hours from different time-zones to my own were not sampled.

Criticisms of the study typically take the form of one of three arguments:
1. A category is improperly labeled or defined
2. Harassment has been witnessed in the mentions of a person (such as Anita Sarkeesian), so the survey cant be correct.
3. The survey is biased or uses improper methods, and is therefore inaccurate.

The categories were the most difficult part of designing the survey. Proper categories are necessary to present the output in a useful manner and answer questions about what is really going on in the tag. The results need to not be overly broad, but to also not be so granular that no one bothers to read the results. Categories and definitions were regularly updated and tweaked in response to feedback and criticism, and data was re-evaluated and re-categorized in accordance to these changes. Most of the time this involved fine tuning definitions to make them more intuitive. However, in one instance, a new category was added in response to criticism, which required that all tweets were re-evaluated and re-categorized appropriately. Input and suggestions are highly valued and appreciated in the iterative process of sampling the data and ensuring its quality.

The second concern is essentially a call for cherry picking. Selecting a particular person and referencing tweets directed at them specifically is a heavily biased means of sampling. This is bad science, and is highly unlikely to yield results that are representative of the entire discussion.

Finally, in response to concerns about the accuracy of the study itself, the complete methodology and definitions have been included herein. Anyone seeing a potential conflict or doubting the validity of the survey is encouraged to reproduce the test with the outlined methods and to post their data and results. Any suggestions on how to improve the methods are, however, always welcome.

Avoidance of conflict of interest is at the heart of all calls for ethics in games journalism. It is troubling to read through this section in the context of what led to this audit and #GamerGate in general. The first paragraph of the conflict section references financial ties, prior employment and close relationships as conditions for recusing oneselfunless otherwise stated on an authors profile page. While this sounds reasonable, it should be more strict. An authors profile page should not be sufficient as a universal disclosure mechanism. Instead disclosures should be repeated in each article if relevant. In addition, this section is potentially conflicting with the Kickstarter non-disclosure treatment laid out in the conduct section above (it is also questionable, why the Kickstarter segment would not be part of this section).

But most importantly, this section is in direct conflict to what the second paragraph of this section states: Polygon staff are permitted to contribute to Patreon campaigns for members of the video game industry . This is unacceptable. Reuters puts it best by stating Never pay for a story and never accept a bribe. And while paying for a story may not be at the heart of an authors intention by contributing to a Patreon campaign, it is perception that would become reality in this instance. Also, this reflects an avoidable conflict of interest per the SPJ guidelinesan author can just not cover a subject they financially support or stop supporting the subject and disclose the prior relationship.

There is a difference in the stance on Kickstarter and Patreon as the reader may have noticed. The distinction follows the logic of buying a product vs. donating to a creator. While the intention of supporting a Kickstarter is directly linked to a separable deliverable of a customer (e.g. a copy of the game) a supporter on Patreon is merely a benefactor for no visible and separable exchange. As a result, the Patreon supporter undermines the own as well as the sources independence in the journalistic process.

The recommendation on this element is to disallow all avoidable conflicts of interest (like Patreon) and have a strict disclosure policy on unavoidable conflicts.

Because for decades we've been handing out participation trophies. This is the first generation that's been told their entire lives that all they need to do is to try. that they are special little snowflakes that are important just for converting oxygen into carbon dioxide.
These people have been sheltered from any hardships for the sake of their self-esteem. They've never been told that they were wrong or that they need to improve themselves. So now that they have entered into the real world they think that the world must adjust itself to protect their fragile little egos.
There's a saying that I love, "Pity the man who has never known hard times". We as human beings learn best by trying, failing, and learning from that failure. What we are seeing is a group of people who have never know hard times, never been allowed to fail, because academics and helicopter parents thought that it might be harmful to them. Little did they realize that without learning how to fail and grow from that failure all you would raise is an overgrown child looking for someone to make them feel special.
Don't be afraid. The tactics they're using are meant to subvert society and subjugate large groups of people. That's telling: the tactics they're using are meant to be wielded by a few to control many. As such, they're obviously outnumbered.
They talk about fighting the patriarchy, because the patriarchy, to them, is just another word for "how things are right now." The patriarchy is like a codeword used to describe the zeitgeist. Even they know that they're outnumbered: ever wonder why they act like they're cornered? That's because they feel they are. (While they're not cornered, as this is the Internet and you can't really GET cornered, if someone of the opposition is desperate, that can reveal that they feel they're about to lose.)
They're not going to win simply because normal people don't have the time for their bullshit. Don't worry; just keep doing what you think is right, and everything will be just fine.

Yes Ubisoft is a typical example of the corruption that needs to end. Is GG having an influence on the big AAA devs like Ubi and EA? Well EA pulled its adds from one website that was involved with the corruption and after the massive backlash with the terrible launch of Battlefield 4, they have started to listen more to their consumers. They made a CTE version of BF4 to help find bugs and they gave out free games to say sorry. It's a start I guess.
Ubisoft still don't give a shit, I doubt they will until their sales are affected.

So far GG has helped increase traffic to gaming websites that have good ethical standards, it has got several gaming websites to start issuing disclaimers and create an ethics policy, even IGN, which has been notoriously corrupt in the past is creating an ethics policy, and got several advertisers to drop websites that have been proven corrupt/encouraged bullying. 
GG has definitely helped make improvements, but there's still so much more that needs to change. I doubt we will ever get rid of the corruption completely, but it's good to see it finally being challenged and reversed.

The measures we take continue to make progress, but we are overlooking potential allies who have been mostly silent on the consumer revolt. The latest approach to resolving our issues is The Rebuild Initiative; a community-driven letter writing campaign for gamers to reach out to game developers.
By contacting devs, we can invite them to the table to talk openly about the state of journalism. Gamer Gate has been branded as a source of toxicity by the media and, as a result, has forced those who handle public relations to keep developers quite. By making an appeal through a letter writing campaign we can convince them to speak out.
Contact the Entertainment Software Association (ESA) and the Entertainment Merchants Association (EMA). They are both trade organizations who lobby to politicians and have fought in court on behalf of video games. They will be instrumental in allowing the industry to come forward on the subject of how games are reported.
This will not only help those who believe in the principles of Gamer Gate, but also help improve the games media market as a whole. With better connections with the games industry, we will be able to create a more free and open market.
Remember the following in writing your letters:
Relate to them what gaming means to you. Your experiences matter.
It is important to show solidarity in your letters. Many developers feel burdened by their consumers - no thanks to the media. Establish you appreciate their work and are open to conversation.
Show them how journalism of games has impacted your gaming experience.
Your letters should be written with a polite and personal tone. Physical mail has more impact than a hundred emails, and hand-written letters show more dedication. Make sure you send a copy to the ESA and another to the EMA. You should also contact individual games publishers, because the ESA and EMA represent those companies.
Be proud of your letters. Once you have them ready to be sent, take a picture of your letters and tweet the photo to @RebuildInitiati. This will not only show your effort publicly, but also inspire others to write as well and spread the campaign. Promote the Rebuild Initiative by using the hashtag #RebuildInitiative.

This is a GREAT idea. There's a few things that could be added for extra DPS. Not sure if this would go here (i'm a reddit noob), so feel free to copy paste and share with the big guns.
Gamergate needs a firebrand issue to set them apart from the opposition even more clearly than the block bot did. One way to do that is to support the equalitarian groundswell already underway and join the backlash from shirtgate.
I caught this from another thread, it's from Chris Good at the huffington post.
As an egalitarian I appreciate his views, and I have read similar sentiments by posters here so take a look and consider adding your voice.

I think a lot of indie devs feel that the cronyism between themselves and some of the press is needed to combat the advantage larger devs have with PR firms and hosting viewing parties.
I would just like that conversation--a debate about whether the cronyism is a good necessity or bad precedent--to happen. A discussion about why indie/press relationships have gotten so close and if it's a problem with no shit slinging and no yelling to be had.
It's a conversation that should have happened awhile ago, but the press was not willing to have it. So the conversation should be had with the indie devs.
Generally speaking, I don't post on KotakuInAction for a lot of reasons. I left GamerGate a few months ago, mostly because some of the more anti-social justice voices that were popping up were upsetting me, and I was concerned about GG's future direction. Some of the big players were leaving me seriously uncomfortable. I'm a trans person, so seeing some of the beliefs Nero has put forward has been... well, pretty hurtful.
There are bad parts of GamerGate. But there are also good parts of GamerGate, parts that I want to hear about. And I also believe in free speech. So I feel like giving GamerGate a fair listen is important.
More to the point, though, I largely refuse to write about GamerGate. Instead, over the past few months, most of the articles and videos I've created have been about ending abuse and harassment within online spheres.
I've spent several years in social justice spheres, and I've noticed a common theme online - good faith people are misdirected and hurt by powerful, controlling people who begin using their influence in order to harass people they don't like. I noticed this in my own tumblr trans community, after seeing an abuser harass a trans man into attempted suicide. For the most part, I thought this kind of abusive behavior was isolated towards tumblr. I always figured, "well, at least this shit doesn't happen in the video game industry."
Then the Zopost happened. I read through the logs in detail, and saw various patterns of emotional abuse directed at Eron Gjoni, from Zo Quinn. Several of my friends with domestic violence training later confirmed this with me, and survivors within (& connected to) the video game industry began to come out to me about their own experiences with emotional abuse. I felt like I had to speak out against both of these issues - abuse from one of "our own," a social justice feminist, as well as abuse inside social justice communities.
I didn't do this because I wanted to hurt anyone. I wanted to help people. I feel like many gamers don't know what emotional abuse looks like, because, at times, gaming sanitizes toxic behavior and abuse. I later found this out to be true, because many of my gamer followers came out to me and said, "Phil, I never realized this before... but after seeing your video, I realize I was also abused."
This is a serious problem, and it's something I want to return to outside of the Zopost. I also want to ask further questions about gender representation in gaming, because, let's face it - there are problems with gender rep in gaming, and those things need to be discussed in nuanced detail. It's important to outline the positive and negative issues we currently see in gaming, because there's always room for improvement. So I want to engage my fellow gaming feminists with a nuanced look at gender representation, by dissecting specific video games, and discussing the way they perceive gender (i.e. Hotline Miami & masculinity, Mass Effect & female autonomy, etc etc).
But, the GG AutoBlocker, ironically enough, is hurting my ability to share my feminist views. I cannot discuss gender roles if I'm #1990 on the GG AutoBlocker. Why? Many of the people using the AutoBlocker are part of my demographic base. They are intersectional feminists interested in gender discourse within gaming. They are people who would view my project, and see what I have to say about harassment, emotional abuse, and gender representation in video gaming.
But there's no way I can properly reach them on twitter if I'm part of the 9,000+ names blocked on there. Hell, what chance do I have if KFC and the IGDA Puerto Rico chairman is on the list?
The creator of the AutoBlocker notes that using the blocker is a choice. That's true - many people refuse to use it on principle. But, that does not excuse its shortcomings and flaws. There are thousands of names on that list that are good people, people who would never consider harassing someone in their life. There are people on that list that are feminists. There are people on that list that are neutral on this issue. And there are people on that list that are fans of the very same people using the AutoBlocker.
But now we can no longer engage with our role models and base, because the AutoBlocker has rudely and inappropriately labeled us as "harassers." And, choice or not, this kind of block list is seriously hurtful for a lot of us. We're effectively blocked out from communicating with other feminists. Why? Because we (and thousands others) were curious enough to follow two people in an algorithm.
I think it's important to give people tools for blocking harassment. Building a list of harassers is, actually, not a bad idea. But I don't think a useful solution is to arbitrarily target and block 9,000+ people that are essentially "Schrdinger's Harassers" - maybe or maybe not harassing others, just because they affiliate with GG. This kind of algorithm is a terrible idea. It largely misses the mark - trolls and harassers will simply find a way around it, while innocent parties will be subjugated to an arbitrary block list.
This isn't a solution. It's providing a band-aid on a festering knife wound. It's effectively removing innocent voices from a conversation on video gaming. And that's a problem, one that the IGDA should not endorse if it wants to encourage free and open discourse in video gaming.
Well I disagree with a lot of points there but this isn't the time or place to debate with you on it. I only hope that in light of which side is doing what you might revise your views one day.
I can agree totally on the harassment and stress part I've fucking like proper break down lost it a few times. Thankfully I'm long experienced in dealing with that shit this was just a new an unexpected flavour of hate.
The thing about GG you need to understand is we are definitely not a SJ movement and have nothing really to say authoritatively on the issue.
We do however care about the free speech and thought that lets other people speak up on those issues, even if we don't agree with them.
I hope you make progress with your goals though, apart from the rape culture thing because seriously, that's just injecting needless hyperbole and something I find personally upsetting.
Remember, Censorship means we're winning. Censorship is a sign of weakness. Censorship proves us right. And just like the Streisand effect, Censorship makes us stronger. When neutral and even anti-gg parties see these underhanded tactics and protest, it's a GOOD thing for us. Can you say BACKFIRED?
I always chuckle at idiots who don't seem to understand how the internet works. Congrats, you extended gamergate's resolve with your ineffectual and impotent methods. Leave it to a literal meth head/criminal to screw it up for the other side :-)
Calling 10,000+ people harrassers is libel, is it not? Can there be a class action taken against this group?
This kind of case would be very hard to win. VERY hard. Libel cases are filed on behalf of an individual not a group of people. Each person would need to file a suit. Making it class action would be very difficult. Another part of a libel claim is damages. Most people on the block list don't suffer any real monetary damage that they can e compensated for. Some developers might, but a lot are just gamers or individuals not associated with gaming.
Anyone using their real name likely has a case as being labeled a harasser by an organization that is viewed as reputable can effect employment. Even in industries that are not related to video games it is common to research a prospective employer's social media profile.
Additionally anyone using a pseudonym that is also used in a business they are involved in(such as devs, youtubers, etc) or is obviously connected with their real identity has a case as well.
I never mentioned class action, you're completely correct in that regard. In terms of having to be provable this is not necessarily the case as this arguably counts as defamation per se.
http://www.dmlp.org/legal-guide/what-defamatory-statement
 
"Some statements of fact are so egregious that they will always be considered defamatory. Such statements are typically referred to as defamation "per se." These types of statements are assumed to harm the plaintiff's reputation, without further need to prove that harm. Statements are defamatory per se where they falsely impute to the plaintiff one or more of the following things:
 a criminal offense;
 a loathsome disease;
 matter incompatible with his business, trade, profession, or office; or
 serious sexual misconduct. "
Group libel never works, although it is antitrust.
Still find it amusing whenever one of these folk use the phrase "sea lioning". Apart from being an incredibly feeble attempt to make "asking questions politely" sound like some sort of offense, it sounds like something Urban Dictionary would classify as a bizarre and possibly dangerous sex act.
Someone needs to do that. I started to but then realized that I'm really not creative when it comes to sex acts.
We believe that the current standard of ethics in the gaming industry is unhealthy to the video game industry. We have taken notice of various conflicts of interest, and wish to address these in hopes that changes can be made so that the gaming industry can retain the trust of its concerned consumers. We believe gaming is an inclusive place, and wish to welcome all who want to take part in an amazing hobby, and to safeguard it from negative influences. We condemn exclusion, harassment, and abuse. This is a community for discussion of these issues, and to organize campaigns for reform, so that the industry can be held accountable for its actions and gamers can enjoy their medium without being attacked or hounded.
I must warn you that what you are about to read will piss you off. This is a story of an underdog fighting an underdog and both sides lose. The villains hide on both sides and the only heroes you will find are those who fight to have their defeat remembered. We have collected witnesses to recall and discuss, but most importantly document this little war that otherwise would be forgotten. We would not be forgotten in the endless sea of ones and zeroes that many other events have been dissolved by, but drowned by liars who could only just grasp the lowest bars of the social ladder.

Lets take a walk through no mans land. What you will find here among the ash piles are evidence of lies, deception, ill-gotten gains, facades, and false morality. You will also find the mark of our footprints; the steps we took to pull back the curtain and expose the corruption around us.

Dramatics aside, we have banded many together to write about the corruption of gaming journalism, social justice movements, and social media gurus. While it may seem like a big internet fight the repercussions of what has become known as GamerGate are much larger. What on the surface appears as nerds upset about internet politics expands to events of bribery, theft from charity, murder threats, rape, and a whole lot more.

There is nothing we can do about what has already happened. The damage has been done deep. We can educate you though. We can teach you about what has happened and how to make sure it never happens again. Hold on to your seat. The ride never ends.

I am a long time user of some of the most ancient active websites on the internet.  It feels sometimes like I speak a completely different language from the rest of the world when I'm online.  This story isn't mine, it is that of those of us who have been using these websites.  This is the story of many people acting together as a collective.  I'm writing in nostalgia of a now lost past, and fear of an uncertain future.  
 
Our story may upset you, our story is not about kindness, or about helping others, it's about a us vs. the world anarchy held together by only a deep seated frustration with the rest of the world more than with each other. A great battle for the control of these discussion forums between opposing forces that the rest of the world scarcely even acknowledges, and in the end there is no victory because there is no clear conclusion.  This is our history.  This is our future.
 
The ugliness on both sides, and the villians, and heroes, all fighting in a maelstrom of pettiness for a future that doesn't care for them.  We have borne collective witness to the discussion.  This is a story all of us know well.  We are writing it down such that our war is not forgotten in the endless ocean of ones and zeroes that is our internet, and perhaps it can lend wisdom to others that they might succeed in their own trials.  
 
We will explore the no-mans land, in which we will find many details and burned careers and fallen journalists.  There we will find evidence of deception, ill-gotten gains, violent facades and false morality.  These are our foot prints, these are the places we've been.  The evidence left, our tool to pull back a curtain and expose the corruption surrounding us.
 
We have banded together to discuss corruption, not only of gaming journalism, but of social science, the social justice movements, and the social commentary media gurus.  While in many senses it seems like, and is, just a "big internet fight" the lasting repercussions will be felt throughout the culture in years to come.  While on the surface it just seems like trolls feeding trolls, death threats, and angry nerds on the surface, the picture painted is of something larger moving through the cultural vacuum that is the modern west.  
 
What has happened, has already happened and there is no changing it.  We were scattered by a well calculated and painful defeat.  The war is not over, although now we know how dangerous fighting in it is.  Those who band together to write these words themselves are at risk in this cultural climate of scandal and war.  We are not wise, we are not geniuses, we are just here, and attempting to do what must be done in order to preserve the remaining fragments of our cultural history.  There are many who would call us liars and villains, but we are not trying to conquer, only to survive, with the hope of one day being free from those who would force on us their ideologies and rules for the sake of nothing more than their own comfort.
 
The future is not set in stone.

 Christopher Poole, or better known by his online name as moot, created 4chan in 2003. Moot was 15 at the time. So then, what is 4chan? 4chan is an extremely popular western-based anonymous imageboard oriented around Japanese cartoons. It is an Americanized version of 2chan, a Japanese imageboard. Moot created the site by translating the 2chan code from Japanese to English, making 4chan almost completely identical to 2chan. However, Poole made a very significant change which has become one of 4chans most defining features; 4chan was created without an archive. When threads reach a bump limit, they traditionally are archived, so people can search through all old posts and read them. When a thread is created, the current one at the bottom of the bump list is deleted. A new comment on a thread counts as a bump, and refreshes the thread, keeping it from falling behind and being deleted. Once a thread is gone past the bump limit, its gone. All data is erased and no archive is saved. No one, not even the administrators can recover said threads.
 
Another new infamous feature of 4chan, which was previously unheard of, is total anonymity. It was possible to have a username, however the majority of users frowned upon people who used usernames, also called tripcodes or trips. The vast majority of users preferred to leave their name blank and post under the default name: Anonymous. It was a simple placeholder that became a name, and eventually, the entire site adopted it as the name of their group. This produced the atmosphere of a hivemind. Some saw it a group of conjoined siblings furiously tearing each other apart. Some saw it as a machine with thousands of cogs all working together to lift an elephant.
 
4chans anonymity is combined with its policy of discussion that is completely raw, completely unfiltered (Christopher Poole, TedX 2010), allowed for a forum where nothing was off limits, where anything was a legitimate subject of discussion. However, this distinction from the past forums of required registration, required identity, required accountability; became the pivotal point of departure from the norm, which laid the foundation to the eventual explosion of the sub-culture known as 4chan.
It grew into a very laissez faire community based around the users posting anonymously with minimal consequences. The community of 4chan could post any opinion without any personal attachment, with no fear of persecution.
Complete freedom of speech gave people new avenues of communication, turning web culture into something else, growing and becoming a being of its own. People tried to fight it, but by then, it could not be stopped. We became to be known as a menace and a plague upon the web, but we didn't care. We had never cared. 4chan was a place of pure anarchy and freedom.
Due to total anonymity, discussion was largely unmoderated, and as a result we were calling each other faggots 24/7. Explain how and why it happened and why it was (and still is, to some people) good. Describe the start of this shitstorm - how people talked, how people made OC, how people got their OC stolen by other sites. Oldfags are required. Mention a few mainstream memes (ugh) in passing, make a remark about how people feel these jokes are overused and how anons dont want to be associated with people who started to use them. Explain why sites like Ebaumsworld, Reddit, Funnyjunk and shit are bad from this standpoint. End chapter describing the growing influence of 4chan, and talk about how it is the birthplace of a strong portion of content for the internet, and uncensored content at that.
To understand where the Social Justice Movement comes from, we first have to go back to the past, and have a look at Cultural Marxism. 
With a title like that, I'll certainly grab the attention of quite a few people and elicit some questions and emotional responses, and some of it will certainly seem far fetched, so I guess I'm going to have to explain myself. First of all, go look at the language used in the mailing lists such as gamejournopro, or by the SJWs, or by most anti-GG proponents. You'll see labels come up a lot: Nerds, losers, neckbeards, no-lifes, etc. Now, it's easy to dismiss this kind of thing as "They're assholes", but I think it's worth exploring who this kind of language has historically targeted, why it's being used here and how it relates to Gamergate.
Before we continue, I would like to introduce you to the Jungian concept of introversion and extroversion:
These are likely concepts you are somewhat familiar with, but to summarize, extroverted people are energized and thrive around other people. They get bored when they're alone. On the other hand, introverted people feel drained by social interaction and instead prefer solitary activities like reading. Note that being introverted does not mean you are shy; those are two different things altogether. It does not mean that you don't like other people either. There is also nothing wrong with being introverted. Right now, psychologists estimate that introverts represent slightly over one third of the population; you would think it's less, but that's because unlike extroverts, introverts don't naturally congregate in large group or form social networks. So, extroverts think introverts are rare because they can't imagine people who don't like being in groups while introverts think they're rare because they isolate themselves from each other through their affinities.
Now that we've established that, you might already understand where I'm going with this. If you're an introvert, you've lived it so much throughout your life that you don't even notice it anymore, but when it gets pointed out, you see it. It's like wearing a pair of glasses your whole life then taking them off and looking at them. What am I talking about? Why, that to extroverts, introversion is seen as not only weird, but wrong. It's not the smart, the studious or the awkward who get picked on and harassed, and it's not because of jealousy: It's the introverts who are the victims, and the reason is a completely irrational hatred from small-minded extroverts. Not all extroverts, just the stupid ones. You're not allowed to not like being around other people all the time. You're not allowed to prefer solitary activities. You're not allowed to have a private life which you don't share with others. In fact, schoolchildren are even taught that they have to be in "groups" and that it's not normal to do otherwise. Such hostility towards the introverted is not new and has in fact been pointed out by the likes of George Orwell and Aldous Huxley.
And what we're seeing here is simply another chapter in this bullshit. Introverts have found a hobby which they enjoy in the last few decades: Video games. Historically, video games were mostly lonely activities and remain so even today. Though multiplayer games have grown in numbers, "social gaming", if we're going to call it such, has been around for less than 10 years. Suddenly, video gaming has become an activity which can be done in groups and the extroverts have begun taking part in it. And when they take part in it, what do they see? Introverts. Introverts everywhere. And they can't have that, no sir. They want video games to be an activity for the extroverted and they want the introverted out.
However, strangely, they didn't count on one thing: The power of the internet. 20 years ago, they would have succeeded. The introverts, though still large in numbers, usually stand alone by themselves, while the extrovert stand together. The internet has changed that; though the introverted still don't seek social activity, the internet allows them to get in contact with like minded people and so to organize when there is a need. Gamergate is an example of an occasion where it is needed. And for one rare time, the extroverted are meeting heavy resistance in their attempt to bully the introverted away from something. This is compounded by the fact that only a small portion of extroverted people actually go out of their way to harass the introverted, meaning that for once in their lives, they're actually outnumbered by the introverted. This is intensely threatening to them, which drives their gradually more and more aggressive tactics, which expose them as frauds to those who aren't involved in the situation.
So, remember this: You are not nerds. You are not losers. There is nothing wrong with preferring solitary activities. You're introverted and no matter what they think it means about you, they have no fucking right to attack you over it.
I think it's encompassing even more than introverts. The insults against "neckbeards", "losers", people who "live in their parents basement", etc. target anyone who doesn't fit into their idea of being socially successful. So it's not only introverts, but also people who are extremely shy, socially awkward, those who suffer from social anxiety, basically anyone who would be ostracized by the stereotypical "cool guys" in high school, because the whole thing is basically high school mentality where people who see themselves as successful feel superior to those they brand as "losers". The famous "gamers are dead" article on Gamasutra can be loosely paraphrased as "the cool guys are playing games now, so we should forget about the nerds".
Interesting post!
Yep, so many in anti-GG say the same things, like "It's not collusion, it's just basic networking!?" And their reliance on making face-to-face connections at game conferences seems to back this up.
I thought the internet was supposed to democratize this - i.e. it shouldn't matter if a dev could meet a journo at a conference or not. The developer could live off at the edges of civilization, but as long as he/she had an interesting game and an internet connection, they could email a journo and their game might get covered. Unfortunately, this doesn't happen. The journos go to Karaoke (and much more as we've learned) with the extroverted "devs" at GDC or wherever, follow each other on twitter and then mostly write about their "friends".
As deviever once said, LW is the Tila Tequila of the indie game community. She's basically little more than a socialite.
Much of western society is biased toward extroversion. This is why the LWs of the indie game community thrive - they have little to offer in terms of a body of work, but they make up for it with glad handing at game conferences.
I don't know how to change this - to have journalists be more open to being approached online by developers instead of relying on a network of "friends". Perhaps we need a few more introverts on the staff of gaming publications. Perhaps GamerGate supporters could start reading smaller game blogs that cover overlooked games and developers...
as an extrovert i call people i've met in person and have had multiple positive social interactions with friends, and the people i've consistently had positive interactions with are my best friends. I have many friends, and a pocketful of best friends. i use "acquaintance" as a term for someone that i've had a kind of neutral interaction with, or someone i've only interacted with positively a couple times. it kinda sucks that you think a friend as defined by an extrovert isn't the same as it is to an introvert; the difference is just how you meet new friends.
a friend of mine invites me over to their house frequently and when we hang out we're often on our phones or laptops browsing the internet and occasionally showing each other what we find. we both consider the interaction positive despite the fact that it's much less social than the idea that extroverts go out and just talk their mouths off or something, or that introverts don't like people. in fact, my friend says it best: "sometimes solitary activities are just a bit more fun with another body in the room." they described a "body" as being a person who is just kinda there doing their own thing, since sometimes an extrovert can be a bit too much to handle to introverts depending on the personality of the extrovert and introvert. that isn't to say we don't interact with each other though; we often play SNES games and emulators together, and always play at least a few rounds of Super Smash Bros.
My point is that this whole "friends mean less to extroverts" sentiment is bullshit. I trust all my friends and best friends with my life. it's just that i socialize with other extroverts, which means i'm often in a group setting meeting people i've not met before.
Hey, but I AM a nerd. I AM a neckbeard (well, not now, because I'm shaved, but I used to have one). I AM a "basement dweller". I prefer to be at home most of the times, playing videogames, studying, reading, watching a series.
And you know what? It's their fucking issue if they point that out in order to disqualify my arguments. They are not any better than a man calling a woman "slut" just because she's showing "too much skin".
I'm an introvert, but I don't consider myself a victim of these assholes. Because they don't have any power, they are just bitching. They can't hurt me, or hurt my hobby. If AAA games became some Sarkeesian-esque uthopy, only femtards would buy it... the first one or two titles, just to make a point. Then they will forget about videogames and start attacking another industry, because they never liked videogames in the first place.
I understand what you mean, that their true goal is the "gaming community", which is comprised mostly of introverts. However, the way they depict gamers and what they want to replace them with, combined with the behavior of the people involved looks a lot to me like a typical case of extroverted people bullying the introverted.
I guess you could say my title is poorly worded; there is certainly no organized "war on the introverts". Rather, I was referring to the phenomenon where some extroverts will actively seek to harass and ostracize introverts, especially when they want to get rid of them.
I really don't think there's any concentrated effort to push introverts out of gaming, I think what we see is just the natural progression of gaming in general obtaining a larger audience which includes extroverts. That and extroverts having a terrible grasp on what introversion is and why introverts act the way they do.
Extroverts aren't intentionally malicious toward introverts, they're just dense. The fact that someone can be comfortable with and like being alone is just a strange concept that they aren't wired to naturally understand and don't usually take the time to try to understand. They try to make everything more social because they think that will intrinsically make it better and more fun or interesting, not because they hate you. They think they're trying to help you, they want you to have "fun" too. They don't think you're happy or content, they think you're shy and lonely. They think that if you can't bring yourself to go out and meet people and party then they'll bring it to you.
It's just two very different mindsets not being able to fully understand each other.
I feel bad for the fact that most of them are deeply dysfunctional, damaged people, and hope most of them get the help that they need.
MikeC has done a pretty good job at exposing how mental illness is a major issue for most of the high profile anti-GG.
They obviously have issues. I would feel worse for them if they were not actively harassing people and trying to control others. They don't get any sympathy from me but there is clearly something very wrong with a large portion of them.
I think a lot of them legitimately need mental help, I KNOW a few of them are thankfully getting it.
I honestly think a lot of them are terrified, afraid if they dont prove themselves to the cause they'll be cut off from all support, all friendships, coverage, business, they're afraid they'll be destroyed as apostates.
It must be very lonely, to never say what you truly think out of fear for accidently triggering a vitriolic response, it's pretty much abusive. So yes, I pity them.
I kinda do. I know what kinds of people tend to get wrapped up in these SJW cliques. In a way, they're kinda like many of us. People who were shit on for one reason or another, and got isolated into off groups.
However, the branching point is when they decided to take their pain out on other people, and wallowing in their victimhood like a drug addiction. Look at the main lineup... Quinn, Wu, Fish, Chu 'n' Cheong, and probably most of all, Leigh Alexander. All damaged, self pitying and angry as fuck. There are enough psychological problems among them to fill a medical text book, but instead of trying to treat it, they revel in it with each other.
It is an echochamber of psychosis and misery, feeding into each other constantly.
It's pretty clear that many of them are seriously mentally ill.
I'm disappointed that the people around them are enabling their illness instead of pushing them to seek help.
I feel bad for the parents of many of these people.
I feel bad for the ones who clearly have untreated mental illness.
but I don't feel bad for the way they treat others. they're bullies, plain and simple.
Operation Full Disclosure is an ongoing FTC campaign (not a GamerGate operation). It is aimed at people making specific claims ("I lost 10 lbs in one week!"). I was trying to get affiliate links included in that FTC campaign.
When I first contacted the FTC, they said they had not determined some policy including affiliate link disclosure. This was a month ago. Now they are working on just that and other things after receiving our many complaints. Note also they are mentioning YouTubers getting video games for free and how that should be disclosed. Oddly specific thing to mention, huh? I think it is very reasonable to say that GamerGate was instrumental into bringing these practices to the front burner.
They reported on youtubers paid reviews. That is normal action for most companies against their competitors. Not themselves. They never scrutinized themselves for doing the same. Such is the way of competition. Put restrictions on your competitors hiding the fact that you do the same. Now thanks to us gamasutra is being scrutinized as well gamasutra showed no interest in also being scrutinized. It explicitly states they are only going after paid videos not paid writing.
Yes, and alerting the FTC about the lack of disclosure of these links in product reviews, news articles, reader comments and Tweets is the entire point of Operation UV. It was a request for enforcement of existing guidelines (a request, btw that anti-GG openly mocked).
If you read the email I sent and the response I got back from the FTC (which are 2 of multiple emails dealing with this specific issue only), it is clear that this issue (which, again, is affiliate links embedded into product reviews, etc ... with no disclosure) is going to be further clarified in new FTC guidelines. They will also address other issues (You Tube stuff, maybe more), but this specific issue is also going to be addressed. If a person reads the existing guidelines closely, it is obvious that the FTC wants websites and reviewers to err on the side of clear and obvious disclosure. Since certain media outlets are skirting this, the FTC is revising their guidelines to make this even clearer.
Gamasutra wrote some articles earlier this year but it had to do with endorsement and affiliate deals by You Tubers. There was no mention of embedded affiliate links in product reviews and news articles. These issues are related but not identical but both are important.
How can I fully trust a review on a website if the website makes money off me of me buying that product? How do I know this is happening if it isn't fully and obviously disclosed to me? It's quite simple really. And the FTC is going to address just this issue. This will only be beneficial to consumers. 
Man, I see in GamerGate the strongest and smartest men who've ever lived. I see all this potential, and I see squandering. God damn it, an entire generation pwning n00bs, grinding levels; slaves with high-DPI mice. Advertising has us chasing DLC and microtransactions, grinding through quests we hate so we can buy shit we don't need. We're the middle children of history, man. No purpose or place. We have no Great War. No Great Depression. Our Great War's a spiritual war... our Great Depression is our lives. We've all been raised on videogames to believe that one day we'd all be invincible killers, and master criminals, and get the princess. But we won't. And we're slowly learning that fact. And we're very, very pissed off.

